Name: Detective Conan's Mystery Museum Interview
Date: June 10, 1997

Content:
Translation:
Translation by: Yunniechan [1][2]
Aoyama Gosho-sensei talks about Conan passionately!!
The first person whom we’ll interview is the author of ‘Meitantei Conan’,
the one who creates Conan’s brilliant deduction, Aoyama Gosho-sensei!
He just saw Conan movie, [Meitantei Conan, The Time-Bombed Skyscraper], so he’ll surely speak about it!
(I loved the movie!! I was really moved by it)
I created the last scene when I was in middle school.
Thank you, it’s Aoyama. [Meitantei Conan] became a movie, and I have to share a word or two of my happiness. When it became an anime, I thought that someday it could became popular. I loved movies since the very childhood.
I love detectives, of course, but the works of Kurosawa Akira are my favourite. His samurai works, for example. He kind of influenced my previous work before [Meitantei Conan], [YAIBA]. When I think about manga compositing, I look at it from filming angle. I draw thinking about camera positioning.
The last scene of [The Time-Bombed Skyscraper] was my idea I came up when I was a child. Around middle school age, or something like this, I imagined it after seeing a scene like this with spies. I come up with a lot of scenes after watching movies or TV. Especially when I watch something boring, I think something like 'I would’ve made it like this’. Though recently I’m not quite free to watch movies :)
Try to find a cell I drew!
Right-right, I just saw this movie… Whole movie :) I want to talk about the last scene. Like I just said, I had this idea since the very childhood. Connected by a red string… I wanted to make something like this. I wanted to use it in [Magic Kaito], but I didn’t get a chance. And it was not an idea that’ll suit [YAIBA]. Thus I put it off, but now had a chance to use it in a movie. Well, I came up with it when I was a child, but to tie this to Shinichi’s birthday… and other small details I thought off after getting a chance to use it in a movie. I want you to search key frames I drew for the last scene. 9 key scenes at all. I drew line art and it was filled by the incredible anime staff.
That’s why I really wanted to see the last scene. I really couldn’t wait for it. And
I’m extremely grateful to anime staff!
Anime staff has incredible people… About seiyuus, Conan could only be Takayama Minami-san. She’s the best for him. I really love OP and ED themes. [Mune ga Doki-Doki] is my favourite. Utoku Keiko-san’s [Hikari to Kage no  Roman] also differs from everything that were before and it’s a really nice feeling. I also really like [Happy Birthday].  
I was a real fan of Kyoko-san’s husky voice since BARBEE BOYS :) Oono Katsu’s band’s music is also great. I loved them since they wrote the music to [Taiyou ni horoe!]. I always draw CD covers with all my might, as a way to say 'thank you’ to them :) Kodama director work was also cool. Anyway, I am really grateful to everyone if anime staff!
Anime’s benefit is that it has sound. Well, of course it is :) Especially it was great at Moonlight Sonata’s episode. When I drew the manga, I listened to 'Moonlight Sonata’, to be honest. Moonlight Sonata 2nd Movement is especially great! And it came up just like I thought.
Anime has a lot of benefits but… Manga will not surrender! Anime can’t show, for example, two-paged spread of Shinichi’s sudden appearance. Manga’s benefit is also that it helps reader to make their own deductions.
The anime became really good, so I’ll try my best for the manga not to be defeated!!
4 secrets of Aoyama Gosho!
According to Puppeteer-Detective, Yama-chan’s manga, Aoyama-sensei really enjoys staying at home. While investigating whether this is true, we found it that he doesn’t go outside except for convenient stores and family restaurants! He usually goes to the places that are in 50m radius around his home/studio. When we found out what was the longest distance he went for recently… It was a press-conference for [Meitantei Conan, The Time-Bombed Skyscraper]. Looks like it is a 'record length Aoyama Gosho went out for’. When we invaded Aoyama-sensei’s studio/home, it was a really a really nice mansion with an incredible night view! Of course you wouldn’t want to go outside of such a nice place!
He doesn’t play games?
Aoyama-sensei loved games since childhood… that was a rumour we heard, but turns out, according to Alco-Detective’s Tani Yutaka’s manga, he doesn’t play games at all recently. Is it true? After invading Studio/Home, we found it! A mountain of games, which weren’t even open! We also found a lot around his TV! The manga was true! According to the interview, Aoyama-sensei [Has to play everything since Dragon Quest VI~]. This game came out in 1995… That means he didn’t play his favourite game for a year?! That’s horrible…
You’re so busy, do you eat properly?
Aoyama-sensei is so busy he can’t even play his favourite games. If he’s that busy, we’re worrying is he eats properly. Fatty Detective’s yonkoma shows that he’s eating well… Aoyama-sensei’s daily schedule is to create a storyboard once in 4 days, and the next two days lining it down with assistants, and only one free day. What does he do at 5 days without the assistants? After a week investigation, we found out which family restaurants and convenient stores he uses. There’s a rumour that when his favourite convenient store was closed due to remodelling, he was about to starve…
He’s really serious when it comes to work?
And the last investigation was about his work! Bravo Detective’s yonkoma shows that he’s really strict at manga… looks like it, at least. But he doesn’t go anywhere, he can’t play his favourite games, eats in convenient stores and family restaurants… Didn’t he ever thought [I can’t stand [Meitantei Conan] anymore!]　We decided to ask Aoyama-sensei himself!  
[I still have a lot I want to draw in [Meitantei Conan]. It doesn’t seem like ending (TN: It was 1997. I’m translating it in 2016 AND STILL GOING). [Kaito Kid] just appeared in it too finally… Wonder if I’ll see it in anime soon <3 Besides, I want to use Heiji’s hometown, Osaka as a stage more often… And I want to draw a Woman in Black too!!]… looks like our worries were for nothing.
Well then, next people we’ll interview are people who created [Meitantei Conan] anime. Kodama Kenji director, Yomiuri TV producer Suwa Michihiko-san amd Tokyo Movie producer, Yoshioka Masahito-san. You have different opinions about [Conan]? But they are the same in one - everyone loves it and had a lot of fun creating it, that’s why anime [Conan] is so great!
(We put in film a lot of stuff we were not able to put in TV anime)
First: Kodama Kenji
Which anime did you wanted to create?
I wanted to create a piece that would be enjoyed by adults. But I also wanted children to enjoy it too.
What is special to anime?
Conan’s mystery solving is pretty easy to understand, I think. In manga it’s explained only by Conan himself, but in anime details are shown onscreen. Besides, characters can move.
This film is love romance?
[Conan]’s world’s love romance can be created only by Aoyama-sensei. If we’ll make something, we could break original manga’s world. That’s why we usually base everything on what was shown in manga. (TN: Cough. KaitoKid. Cough). In the film Aoyama-sensei planned a love romance subplot, so we started without second thoughts.
What do you want to note in this film?
It enjoys all your senses. You watch you hear, your brain works out deductions, and your heart is moved by love romance. At the 5 minutes after beginning my heart started to beat quickly. The screen is so wide, so we can drew even smallest details, and that, I think, leaves a different impact than TV anime. That was the greatest work and I doubt I’ll be able to create something like that… said I, but guess what I’ll do if there would be another movie adaptation :)
Three main points of anime [Meitantei Conan]?
Suwa: Maybe the fact that the anime is a big lie. It’s not real, but talks about reality a lot. And the deduction. That’s the best. TN: I didn’t get it. Maybe I’m wrong.
Yoshioka: Three, huh. First is the deduction that even adults can enjoy. Second one is slapstick action with the Detective Boys. And the third one is love romance, which Aoyama-sensei spoke about.
TV anime continues while using all three.
[Conan] movie had a lot of strong points
Yoshioka: The movie had those three main points I just spoke about.
Suwa: Felt like a big amusement park…  With a jet coaster, beautiful night view and a lot of attractions. Of course we enjoyed creating TV anime too, but this movie was something extra special. We hope that viewers had a lot of good experience with it.
What you tried to achieve with this movie?
Yoshioka: We want to make a lot of action we can’t do because of usual TV episode time limit. And on familiar scenery. Conan didn’t went overseas, and incidents and crimes happens nearby, with Detective Boys dealing with it.
Suwa: I wanted to tell a long story. Since the movie is something you can dive into and it has a long running time. But I wanted to make it with breathtaking speed.
Yoshioka: I wanted to create a movie with compilation of action and deduction.
Suwa:  That was a movie like a takoyaki with red pasta.
Yoshioka: That was really great till the very end. Like a jet coaster ride, where you can’t leave your seats.
We’re proud of our team work.
Seiyuu-san, devoting their lives to anime [Meitantei Conan]. What do they think about characters they are playing? What is the atmosphere in the studio? Afrec (after recording) just ended, let’s hear them live!
What is Conan’s charm?
Takayama: Conan has that self-devotion trait of his, you see. He’ll never cheat, and he will try to protect the one and only girl for his whole life. That’s his charm. I played a role of main character in Aoyama-sensei’s previous work, [YAIBA], and he’s such type.
I wonder if Aoyama-sensei himself is a man like this… Women should be very happy (TN: My heart melted, they married after, sadly divorced though ;v;)
What was like recording for the movie?
Takayama: Even if it was a movie, it wasn’t really different from the usual.
Kamiya: As usual, we acted according to the director.
Takayama: But the story really made me nervous. That was not random bombing? If you don’t solve it soon, everyone should be in danger!.. like this. Director said that his heart was beating after first 5 minutes, and I felt the same.
Kamiya: But it was a nice story. Really. I was about to cry. Especially at the last scene.
Takayama: Looks like there was a person who really cried.
Horikawa: Who?
Takayama: Not here at the moment, but Megure-keibu.
Horikawa: Chafurin-san?
Kamiya: Yep
What is Ran’s good side?
Yamazaki: Ran is really strong, she’s doing karate, but when Shinichi is around, she becomes really worried.
Takayama: She always tells [Come back quickly, Shinichi!] at the phone..
Yamazaki: But she can’t say anything in front of a real Shinichi.
Kamiya: Yeah. Feels kind of off. Yamazaki-san plays her perfectly, but it is kind of strange.
Yamazaki: When it comes to Shinichi, shows a brilliant deduction, but…
Kamiya: …soft on the inside.
Yamazaki: That’s also Ran’s cute trait :)
Do you see Kogoro as father in this movie?
Kamiya: I really like Kogoro. He has human weaknesses, like he can usually go astray, loves to drink, runs away of his own wife, and his child had to care about him… But sometimes he can be really cool. At the Kogoro’s Class Reunion Murder Case, for example.
Takayama: He was really cool at that time. And strong too.
Kamiya: At the movie, he showed that he really cares about Ran.
Horikawa: Kamiya-san has children too, do you understand Kogoro at that point?..
Kamiya: You can say that too.
Is Ayumi a girl in love?
Kamiya: Ayumi feels like a boss.
Iwai: Usually she is, but when Conan drank sake and could’ve returned to Shinichi, when she saw Conan leaning, she thought [I feel like I’ll never see him again], right? When Shinichi was leaving Ran in the very first chapter, Ran thought exactly the same.
Kamiya: Do you have episodes you like?
Iwai: [Detective Boys Survival Case]. I really love such adventures.
What is the atmosphere in the studio after finishing recording lines?
Takayama: Conan and Heiji are really alike. They even act the same. Horikawa: They both love mysteries.
Takayama: After today’s recording (Holmes Freak Murder Case), I feel like Heiji was really cool. And Shinichi is in pinch?! :)
Horikawa: That’s my second Conan afrec (TN: No, third. You played an AO victim killed by chocolate), but it’s surprisingly easy to act.
Kamiya: Because everyone even breath in sync.Takayama: We’re on good terms here. 
Kamiya: Every week I expect to meet everyone, that I work with pleasure and after that everyone goes eating. What a great work :)
Takayama: Today we’ll also go to eat after that <3
The magic of sound playing in the Mystery World.
And the last ones on the backstage are people who create Conan’s Sound, musicians with Music Life Show! They stir up [Meitantei Conan] famous scenes, and write songs and music!
Kyoko: Conan and Ran are always close, but they can’t say they love each other. That’s heartbreaking.
Thinking about people I miss… [Happy Birthday] is a song that tries to convey feelings for those who are dear to you but far away. When I was recording it in London, I thought about my friend and ex boyfriend… That is a song that will be played in the movie ending, after the incident is resolved. Last scene that makes you chuckle a bit (TN: after credits I believe) I saw at the cinema by myself.
They are below different skies and can’t tell ‘I love you’ to each other. It’s really sad not to be able to convey such feelings, but Conan-kun and Ran are always together, and yet they can’t tell their true feelings. I think that this is much more hard and sad situation. When I watched it, I thought [Why can’t you just understand he’s Shinichi?!] :) This song is sad, but it has optimistic subtext too. Goes well with Conan and Ran’s love.
Utoku Keiko: A singer of anime’s current (3/51 :D) ED [Hikari to Kage no Roman]. Warm, heartwarming sound and Keiko-san’s sweet singing voice is starting to sound after the incident. It has a like [I understand everything but still continue to love you]… Sound a lot like Ran’s loving heart!
Oono: It’s important to create music that goes with the story.
I created a lot of music for TV animes and movies, but that was my first time creating music for Conan. I was totally okay with that. I don’t care whether it’s drama or anime. Same with movies. I created it thinking about how  it will suddenly change going in sync with story. Conan is really interesting, don’t you think? Even when adults are reading it, sometimes it’s hard for them. When I first read it, I read everything till the end in one breath.
So both adults and children can enjoy it, so I created a lot of different types of music.
Conan, Ran and Kogoro are a great team. He fits in. Always going after them when there’s an incident. They are starting to become a nice team. I guess it’s the same with music. It’s starting to be familiar to Conan series. I like Conan more than Shinichi. And Ran is cute too.
What music would you recommend?
I created a music for Conan movie in around 10 days. 2 days for recording. It’s usually 5 days for TV anime. Movie sound has a thing called Dolby Sound, so we had to record it in a unique way. Because of that we had to record not only new music, but also old music, changing it a bit. Movie’s melody is half-new, and I felt some kind of familiar while creating it. Besides, it was an action movie, right? So it was different from TV, with a more intense rhythm.
Music I can recommend? I don’t want to say it. I want you to listen to it and then decide.
[Time bombed skyscraper] has connections with Dolby Sound, so there were two different versions for CDs and for movies. Please listen to in in the cinema theater, you will be really excited.