Name: Conan Vs Kaitou Kid Perfect Edition
Date: April 2, 2004
Published in: Detective Conan vs. Kaitou Kid: Perfect Edition (p. 169)

Content:
Translation:
Translation by: Yunniechan [4]
Hello, it’s Aoyama Gosho. Speaking about a book that’ll have Conan VS Kid battles, I was unsure, whether would people actually buy it, but at least people who are reading it right now have bought it. Thank you.
When Kid first appeared, I drew him thinking of him like special guest for one time, I never thought he’ll appear enough to compile a book, what a shock :) At first I only wanted Conan to have a strong rival. Hattori Heiji is his deduction rival and detective pal. But I wanted a rival that was an arch nemesis to detectives, natural enemy, to appear. Then how about an elusive daredevil thief, like Arsen Lupin and Lupin III? I was their fan since the very childhood. So, I thought a lot about a rival, who’s smart as Conan and can oppose him….
Wait a second! I knew someone who is exactly fit for this… And he’s right next to me! :)
I was unsure about a main character from my other work appearing, so I went to consult with that time Shounen Sunday’s Editor in Chief. He readily said me that it’s okay. So I happily created a showdown between Conan and Kaito Kid.They even have a beginning, in [Magic Kaito]’s [Black Star chapter] Shinichi appears, which of course wasn’t an original thought :) Of course right now I think a lot about Conan and Kid connections.
But the reason of Shinichi’s appearance in [Magic Kaito] is that I wanted to draw him acting in his Shinichi form, it doesn’t have any deep meaning. Kid/Kaito’s rivals are Nakamori-keibu and Hakuba-kun. Shinichi is, so called, special guest.
So you can expect to read Shinichi’s important activity before he became Conan in this book. And I’ll comment it for [Magic Kaito] fans, Nakamori-keibu wasn’t assigned to police HQ at that time, that was back in time where he worked at Minato Police Station.I think that Conan and Kid relation as ‘the one who chases’ and 'the one who runs’ will continue in [Meitantei Conan]. Well, I don’t know who’ll win in the end though :)I will draw it with great pleasure, so please wait for it!!