Name: Asahi Newspaper Interview
Date: January 13, 2006
Published in: Asahi Evening Newspaper
Key Plot Point: Boss's name has already appeared.

Content:
Translation:
Asahi Newspaper of January 13th, 2006 
"Detective Conan" celebrates its 10 years on NTV
An anime that creates a "good intellectual stimulation"
The voice actors of the series have never changed since the beginning of the anime: "Conan is like their home", told us the artist, Aoyama.
The popular anime of Nihon Television, "Detective Conan", celebrates its 10th anniversary in January this year. The ratings are on an average of 10% among teenagers, and the tenth movie will be released in April. The sales for the 51 first volumes have reached 100 million units, and the series still goes on. "I thought an anime wouldn't go well with a deduction-themed manga. But the anime is still being made thanks to the team's hard work," told us Gosho Aoyama.
Shinichi Kudo was a high-school detective until a mysterious criminal organization made him drink a poison which shrank his body to the state of a child. He now calls himself Conan Edogawa, and lives at his childhood friend's house, in order to solve all kinds of cases, while waiting for the Black Organization to make a move.
An anime adaptation began to air on television one year after the first chapter's release in Shogakukan's 'Shonen Sunday'. "The murders are drawn, and people die frequently. So I first thought "It's impossible, are they really going to do an anime?"," Aoyama told us.
When he was in college, the author wanted to become an anime artist. That's why Aoyama works together with the movie production team for the Detective Conan movies. He is very involved in everything related to the Conan anime.
I was already drawing the manga, so when the anime team began the creation process of the anime, I told them "I'll also do my best". It became one of my main motivations. Even better, I found ideas for the manga while talking to the anime production team."
A 10-year Special episode was realeased on the 9th of January. It's a battle between the Black Organization and Conan, where both of them have to attack and defend themselves. Since the episodes are released, the gap between the anime and the original work has been shortened. Are the final confrontation and the end of the series near?
Everything we talk about during our meetings is kept secret. Actually, the boss's name has already appeared in the manga. Try and find it."
The veteran voice actor of the clumsy detective Kogoro Mori, Akira Kamiya-san, gave a certain charm to the anime thanks to his vocal performances. 
"Her voice is exactly what I had in mind," Aoyama-san told us when speaking of Conan's voice actor, Minami Takayama-san, a woman. He's married with her since last year.
After I create a case, I like to ask myself "How would Conan say that?", or "Is it good like that?". Moreover, I always have Conan at home. When I go home after my work is finished, I want to forget my job, but I still hear Conan's voice... in my house."