Name: Magic Kaito Volume 4 Interview
Date: March 15, 2007
Published in: Magic Kaito Volume 4

Content:
Translation:
Translation: (from German)
Some stuff is pretty dated (like the questions about the release of volume 5), so the most interesting things are still that...
---
Please excuse the long break...! Have fun with the bonus material!
Bonus Material Part 1 - Interview with Gosho Aoyama
We were talking with master Aoyama while he was working on the Omake!!
Kaitou's clothes are difficult to draw!!
Q: Which of the stories from volume 4 do you like the most?
Aoyama: Hm, "Black Star", where Kaito and Shinichi confront each other.
Q: What's the most difficult for you when drawing Kaito?
Aoyama: It's really bothersome to draw his costume... (laughs)
Q: And what do you enjoy the most?
Aoyama: Oh, I always have a lot of fun...! In Detective Conan, I always draw the hunter. Now it was just fun to draw the hunted one for once.
Q: What is the image of such a phantom?
Aoyama: He's just like  ghost who suddenly appears; a daredevil and a thief who's got style. I'm imagining Arsène Lupin. (laughs)
Volume 5 will be released... during this century!!
Q: Can we hope for an appearance by Conan?
Aoyama: Someday he will appear. This will be fun!
Q: Are there any other stories you'd like to draw?
Aoyama: I dream about a prison break, but who would throw a student into prison...? This causes quite a headache for me... (laughs)
Q: When will volume 5 be released?
Aoyama: Who knows?! Maybe during this century! (laughs)
Q: Do you want to leave a message for the readers of Magic Kaito?
Aoyama: I'm really sorry that you had to wait 13 years for volume 4... Hahaha... During the time volume 1 was released I was only 4 or 5 years older than Kaito, but by now the age difference is way bigger. This doesn't make it any easier to come up with good stories. (laughs) I'm grateful for every kind of support!
Speech bubble of Gosho Aoyama's self-caricature: "Hello, I'm Aoyama! After finally managing to complete the fourth volume, I was convinced to draw some bonus pages. Have fun!"
Bonus Material Part 2 - Wow! Volume 4 is out now! We congratulate!!
A greeting by the voice actors of the anime Kaitou Kid!
Kappei Yamaguchi
Voice of Kaito Kuroba
Born May 23rd in Fukuoka Prefecture. Also voices Shinichi Kudo in the original version of Detective Conan.
You've got an email by Kappei Yamaguchi:
Yippee! That's what I waited for! Magic Kaito, volume 4!! It's been 13 years!! This took way too long, Aoyama-sensei! But good things come to those who wait. What's missing now is just an anime for this volume!! ☺
K@ppei Yamaguchi
PS: Don't you dare to change the cast!
Minami Takayama
Voice of Aoko Nakamori
Born May 5th in Tokyo. Also voices Conan Edogawa and was married to Gosho Aoyama.
On a day in January 2007, during dub recording for Detective Conan...
Takayama: "Congratulations, Aoyama, that you've managed to complete the fourth volume. You've waited a really long time for that, isn't it, dear readers?"
Iwai: "Do we go eat something when the recordings are done?" (Yukiko Iwai, voice of Ayumi!)
Takayama (with Conan's voice): "Wait, I'm still busy."
Iwai: "Really? I'm sorry. By the way, congratulations for the release of the fourth volume of Magic Kaito!"
Takagi: "Yes, it's really cool!" (Wataru Takagi, voice of Genta)
Takayama: "Okay... I will read the volume, too. Everyone who's starting with the fourth volume should also get the other three! ♥"
Topics: "Black Star" Special in the "Conan" TV series!
"Black Star" was part of a 2-Hour-Detective Conan-TV Special that ran in January of 2001. Its name was: "Atsumerareta Meitantei! Shinichi Kudo vs. Kaitou Kid". ["Gathering of Detectives! Shinichi Kudo vs. Kaitou Kid"] There's a magnificent scene during which Kid gets confronted with Shinichi Kudo. Because the adaptation was set in Conan's world, the magic scene with Akako was left out.
Bonus Material Part 3 - Targets and Counter Measures
Kid's motives have been seen through! There's nothing in the way of an arrest now!
TOP SECRET - For use against Kaitou Kid
File from the second division of the police headquarters
TOP SECRET - Kaitou Kid's targets and other aims
Kaitou Kid, international criminal number 1412, targeted works of art and gems from the best museums in the world. If one looks at his latest targets, a new pattern arises. Kid seemingly goes for the largest gems in the world now. He prefers objects with colors in their names. Nobody knows why this is the case, but there's no doubt that it will help in the arrest of Kid. Furthermore, Kid, who traveled around the world in the past, seems to concentrate on gems in and around Tokyo currently.
Ginzo Nakamori: Hahaha! I have analyzed  Kaitou Kid's modus operandi for three days and nights. This information is top secret!!
Analysis 01: Different colors
Two of the gems Kid targeted were blue. But the "Blue Wonder" wasn't chosen by Kid himself. Jirokichi, general adviser for the Suzuki financial corporation, challenged Kid to get the gem. So we can assume that Kid aims for gems with different colors. Pink or rose should be a possibility too in the future...
Analysis 02: Future targets
We surmise that Kid wants to steal all the largest gems on Earth step-by-step. So he will choose gems he wasn't targeting in the past. These would be, among other things, diamonds, garnets and lapis lazuli. A diamond is very probable. He already targeted Europe's biggest diamond in the past, but...
Assessment: The largest diamond in the world with a yellow or pink color could be Kid's next target!!
Saguru Hakuba: We would surely catch him if I was present! But I don't have any time!
There are countless gems in a lot of different colors, so there is no sure way to make a prognosis. More than two hundred gems in different colors are part of the Aurora collection in New York alone that cause the building to sparkle. "Red Tear" is classified as a ruby, but actually, only red corundums as classified as rubies. "Red Tear" would actually be classified as a sapphire. A lot of gems which are part of the same type get different labels and because of this, no safe prediction can be made.
Bonus Material Part 4 - The curtain rises for master Aoyama's cat, Kaito-kun!!
Kaito-kun's Gallery
How well can a cat named Kaito disguise itself?
Image captions from upper right to bottom left:
Look forward to more adventures with Kaitou Kid!!