Name: Masters Of Manga Interview
Date: July 6, 2010
Published in: Masters of Manga

Content:
Translation:
Text submitted by: Chekhov
Gōshō Aoyama is one of the most successful shōnen manga artists of our time and its most successful work, Detective Conan (Case Closed in the US), serialized on Shōnen Sunday (Shōgakukan) since 1994 (68 paperbacks so far), has been one of the biggest hits of the 1900s and 2000s. Detective Conan, a detective story whose main character, little Conan Edogawa, is a teenager detective trapped in a body of a little kid, is still going on. Uber-busy Aoyama, who is required to draw twenty pages of manga every week, wasn’t able to meet me for a face to face interview, but even so he was so kind as to agree to answer to my questions via e-mail. Here I transcribe the interview in full.
Please do not publish this interview on other blogs or publications without my permission. (Tough cookies Masters of Manga, if the originals go down, someone's gotta rehost for the good of the fandom)
1: Why did you decide to become a mangaka? How did it all start?A: It all happened because I wanted to give shape to stories that were only in my head in order to show them to everybody.
2: What other mangaka or artists had influence on you?A: Tetsuya Chiba, Monkey Punch and Mitsuru Adachi.
3: Do you usually read or watch detective stories? What kind of stories do you prefer?A: I watch a lot of movies and TV series, so many I’m even unable to count them. Sherlock Holmes, Furuhata Ninzaburō, Columbo, and the novels of Hercule Poirot would be good examples of what I like.
4: Outside Japan there are a lot of famous authors specializing in detective stories, such as Sir Arthur Conan Doyle or Agatha Christie. I believe that the same can be said about Japan, where there are also many novelists specialized on the genre. But what about manga? Were there other manga stories before Detective Conan whose main character was a detective? If the answer is “no”, was Conan a pioneer of the genre?A: If I’m not mistaken, Kindaichi Shōnen no jikenbo (The Case Files of Young Kindaichi) serialization began earlier than Conan’s.
5: What was the driving force behind your decision to draw Detective Conan?A: I wanted to write/draw a romantic comedy whose main character was a detective that has been made small again.
6: Detective Conan is now a big hit and many other stories of the same kind have been appearing here and there on other manga magazines of other publishing houses. What do you think about this phenomenon?A: I think that this is happening because there is a detective inside every person in the world. We all like mysteries, this is why.
7: Detective Conan’s world has expanded hugely; it has been adapted to anime, movies, live action TV series and many more media. What do you think about this?A: I think that I’m very happy and very lucky (laughs).
8: Why did you decide to make Conan a child? Do you think that the series would have been equally successful had the main character been a teenager detective, as it was in the very beginning?A: I think that precisely because I made him become a child again, I could gain the attention and faithful readership of a broader range of readers, from children to adults.
9: Is it very hard to be in charge of the same series during years and years? Exactly how hard is it?A: It’s so hard I cannot sleep for more than three hours a day (laughs).
10: Have you already decided the end of Detective Conan?A: Yes, I have. However, I don’t know when I’ll be able to draw it (laughs).
11: Do you think all the cases of Detective Conan by yourself? Or does somebody help you with that?A: I painfully think them all with my very limited brain with the help of my editor in charge (laughs).
12: How many assistants do you have? Some of them went on to create new stories based on your characters and situations with the title of Detective Conan Special. What do you think about this? How do you feel having your characters and plots in others’ hands?A: I have five assistants. About how I feel letting others take control of my plot and characters, I felt anxious at first, but later on I’ve discovered they really make me think: “Wow, this situation is not bad at all, why didn’t I come up with it before?” (laughs).
13: Enough about Conan for now. Did you inspire yourself on the story of Musashi Miyamoto to create Yaiba?A: Yes, of course. Some characters have been taken directly from that story (laughs).
14: Yaiba, which is a kendo-themed story, is famous all over the world. What, in your opinion, is the key to that success?A: I think that maybe the fact of setting a story in which the characters can put different “orbs” in their swords was the decisive factor, as it makes it feel like a videogame.
15: You are one of the most prominent shōnen manga authors of our times. From that position, I’d really like to know your views on nowadays’ shōnen manga scene.A: I’m so focused on my own work and circumstances that I’ve never really thought about it, sorry (laughs).
16: Of all your works, which is your favorite and why?A: Well, that would be Detective Conan. We have been together now for too long not to be friends, in fact (laughs).
17: What kind of manga would you like to draw if you had the chance?A: A story about Sun Wukong (Son Gokū).
18: What do you think that your manga is popular in son many countries all over the world?A: It’s a huge honor.
19: Manga has finally become a worldwide phenomenon. What do you think about that?A: I’m convinced that Japan, and Japanese people, should be proud of manga and anime. I really believe it.
20: Could we ask for a final comment from you to manga readers all over the world?A: Conan is full to the brim with tricks and ciphers only Japanese can understand and, even so, many foreign readers keep faithful to his stories. I’m very grateful for that and I hope they continue to do so. Thank you very much, really.