Name: Movie 17 Interview with Aoyama Gosho and Shibasaki Kou
Date: April, 2013

Content:
Raw:
劇場版「名探偵コナン」シリーズ、17作目となる最新作『名探偵コナン 絶海の探偵(プライベート・アイ)』。本作では海上自衛隊の全面協力の下、迫力の映像が実現した。スペシャルゲストとして出演したのは学生時代からコナン読者という柴咲コウ。ミステリアスな女性自衛官・藤井七海をクールに演じた。約7年ぶりの声優挑戦とは思えない堂々とした演技に原作者の青山剛昌も「かっこいい！」と太鼓判を押すほど。今回が初対面の二人だが、そこはコナンがつなぐ縁。読者ならではのコナンへの思い、作家ならではのこだわりを語った。
■お互いは初対面。でもコナンとは20年近くの付き合い！
Q：初対面だそうですが、お互いの印象はどうですか。
青山剛昌（以下、青山）：よくテレビで見ているんですよ、「ガリレオ」とか。そのまんまですね。
柴咲コウ（以下、柴咲）：わたしは単行本を買っているのですが、そこに青山先生の似顔絵が描いてありますよね？
青山：いつも、殺されているやつですね。
柴咲：そうそう！　血が流れている（笑）。似ています。さすがです。
Q：柴咲さんが最初にコナンを読んだのはいつごろですか。
柴咲：うろ覚えなのですが、少年サンデーで読んでいました。確かわたしが中学生くらいのときに連載が始まったと思います。もしかしたら、第1話か、その次くらいから読んでいるんじゃないかな。
青山：おお、すごい！　子どもの頃読んでいた人が、今はお父さんになって、子どもと一緒に観ているという人も多いんですよ。
Q：柴咲さんにとって、コナンの魅力とは？
柴咲：完全に読者としての感想でいいですか（笑）。まず、絵がすごく入っていきやすいんです。特徴があって、一目見て覚えやすい。でも、解く謎は一級。テレビドラマで時間をかけて扱うような難事件だったりするから、いつの間にか世界に引き込まれてしまうんです。
青山：べた褒めですね。ありがとうございます。
■コナン史上最もハードな内容に子どもが付いてこられない!?
Q：今回は憧れのコナンの世界に海上自衛官・藤井七海として登場しますね。
柴咲：読者って多少、わがままな部分があるじゃないですか。自分の都合のいいように解釈したり（苦笑）。今回はスペシャルゲストという形で、この映画だけのキャラクターで参加できたので、自分としてはラッキーだったと思います。
青山：藤井七海のキャラクターデザインも僕がやっているんですよ。柴咲さんが演じられると聞く前に描いたのですが、「美人にしてほしい」という要求があったので、眉毛をひょひょひょいと、目は軍人っぽくきりっとさせました。
柴咲：眉毛、かわいいですよね！　軍人役と聞いてきちんと演じられるのか、ちょっと心配だったのですが、緊張感をずっと持ち続けていたので、そこを膨らませていけば何とかなるかなと思っていました。それから、わたしが声を入れたときには、もうほとんどの人の声が入っていたので、とても参考になりましたね。何もない状態で入れるのはすごく大変なんじゃないかと思いますが、コナン君の声ももう入っていましたから。
青山：うまかったですよ。違和感がなかった！
柴咲：でも、やり直ししたんですよ。歌も歌っているせいか、せりふにメロディーというか、ふに落ちるイントネーションがあるんです。それに合ったときは後から聞いても大丈夫なんですけど、時々「これでいいのかなぁ？」と何となくメロディーが合っていないような気がするものはどこか違和感や気持ち悪さが残って、やり直すことがありました。
青山：そういうときには自分から「録（と）り直した方がいいんじゃないですか」って言うの？　すごいなぁ。僕はそれでOKなら「じゃ、いいね？」って言っちゃうなぁ（笑）。
柴咲：もともと声にコンプレックスがあったせいかもしれません。歌を歌い始めてから、少しずつ緩和されていったんです。けれど声だけとなると、はっきりと出るじゃないですか。それを後から聞くのも試練でしたね。
青山：声優さんにはいないような声だったから、何かいいなと思っていました。かっこよかったです。
Q：その藤井七海の活躍をはじめ、今作はこれまでの劇場版より、よりハードでダイナミックな印象を受けました。
青山：今回、イージス艦を舞台にやるって決まったときから、脚本家の櫻井武晴さんに「リアルにしてください」と注文を出していたんです。だから、かなり大人向けになっていますね。あんまり子ども向けにしてしまうと僕的にも面白くないですから。ただそうはいっても、今回はもしかすると、途中から子どもが付いてこられないんじゃないかなと心配になるところもありました。でも劇中ではコナン君がわかりやすく、「何を探せばいい」とか、「何を考えればいい」と教えてくれるので、子どもも十分に楽しめる内容になっていると思います。
柴咲：わたしも「うわ、難しい」と思いながら、やっていました。
■衝撃!!　コナンの秘密のルールを発表!!
Q：先生の中で、コナンを描く上でのルールはありますか。
青山：「コナンは泣かない」っていうのが一つのルールなんです。
柴咲：今回、泣いていますよね？
青山：実は泣いているわけではないんです……。でも詳しくは、これから観る方もいるので秘密です（笑）。
Q：探偵グッズは今回も大活躍ですが、こちらに関しては？
青山：名前は絶対、普通にしています。でないと恥ずかしいから。「ボールシューター」とか恥ずかしくないですか。「キック力増強シューズ」だと恥ずかしくないし、そのまんまだから、わかりやすい。めったに出しませんけどね。一番、最後に出したのがベルトかな？　あれ以降、出ていないです。急に変なものを付けて出てくるとおかしいから、コナン君がいつも身に着けているものでないとダメ。だけど、ほとんど使っちゃって、あとはランドセルくらいしか残っていないんです。
柴咲：髪の毛とかどうですか。
青山：鬼太郎じゃないんだから（笑）。
Q：最後にお気に入りのシーンを教えてください。
柴咲：まだ1回しか観られていないんですが、そのときは自分の声が出てくるものだから、やっぱりついそっちに気を取られてしまったんですよね。見直したら、きっとコナン君とのシーンに感動すると思うんですけど。音がすごく迫力があっていいなと思いました。実際にイージス艦を攻撃されそうになるところとか、良かったです。
青山：僕も原画とか描くんですけど、自分の絵が劇中に出ると恥ずかしいと思ってしまう感覚と一緒なのかな？　アニメーターの人と自分の線が違うので気になるんです。今回はそうでもなかったですが。どう？　気にならなかった？
柴咲：気にならないどころか……いいです！

Translation:
Source:
Raw
Translation
Translation:
This is an interview of Aoyama Gosho (creator of Detective Conan) and Shibasaki Kou (Actress, singer, and voice actress of a character in the new Detective Conan Movie) which was posted by Cinema Today.
With this film involving entire cooperation of the Maritime Self-Defense Forces things get really intense. There is a special guest performance this time by Shibasaki Kou who has read Conan since she was a student. As a mysterious female member of the defense force, Fuji Nanami is played as a cool character. Her magnificent performance which made it seem easy even after having not been a voice actress for about 7 years, was given the stamp of approval and said to be "very cool" by the original author Aoyama Gosho. The two of them are just meeting for the first time now, but have a connection through Conan. We talked about thoughts towards Conan distinctive of a reader, and the scrutinizing of particular points which is distinctive to an author.
■ A First Time Meeting, but an Association for Nearly 20 Years!
Q: This seems to be your first time meeting but what are your impressions of one an other?
Aoyama Gosho (hereafter referred to as Aoyama): I've seen her on TV, on things like "Galileo" and such.
Shibasaki Kou (hereafter referred to as Shibasaki): Well, I bought one of the special volumes of the manga, which has a portrait of Mr. Aoyama doesn't it?
Aoyama: The one where I'm always being killed right?
Shibasaki: Right! There's like blood pouring out or something (laughs). Anyway, it really looks like you. It's just as I expected.
Q: Around what time did you first start to read Conan, Ms. Shibasaki?
Shibasaki: It's a vague memory, but I read it in Shonen Sunday. I think when it started getting serialized I had to have been in middle school. I think I started reading from the first story, or maybe the second one.
Aoyama: Oh wow! There's actually some people who watched it as a kid, and they have now become fathers and they watch it together with their kid.
Q: As for Ms. Shibasaki, what would you say the charm of Conan is?
Shibasaki: Is it okay if I give my impressions completely as a fan (laughs). First of all, the pictures are very easy to get into and to follow. It's very characteristic and recognizable at a glance. But the mysteries to be solved are first-class. It deals with difficult cases that take time just as a TV drama would, so before you know it you're pulled into the world.
Aoyama: Such high praise. Thank you very much.
■Can kids really follow the extremely difficult historical subject matter of Conan!?
Q: This time in the world of Conan, you appear as the Maritime Self-Defense Force's Fuji Nanami right?
Shibasaki: As a fan, there's a somewhat selfish part to it isn't there? I interpreted it as it was convenient for me (wry smile) As the special guest this time, I got to participate as a character that only appears in this movie, so I thought I was lucky.
Aoyama: I also did the character design for Fuji Nanami. I drew it before I knew that Shibasaki would be playing the role, but they told me "we want her to be beautiful" and so I gave her thin eyebrows and sharp eyes like a soldier.
Shibasaki: Her eyebrows are cute aren't they! When I heard that her position was military personnel I worried a little about whether I could play the role properly, but I maintained a feeling of tension the whole time so I thought if I could expand on that then I could make it through somehow. And also, when I was recording, most of the other people had already recorded their lines so I could really use them as reference. I thought it would be difficult if it were a situation where no other voices had been recorded yet, but even Conan's voice was already added, so...
Aoyama: It was very well done. Nothing felt out of place!
Shibasaki: But we did a lot of redoing. Like the way the song was sung, or matching the lines going with the melody, or getting a satisfactory intonation. So when you hear it after that's done it's okay, but sometimes you'd think "is this really good like this" when there was a feeling that it just didn't match up with the melody, and it would leave a feeling that it was just out of place and strange and so we would have to redo it.
Aoyama: So at those times you'd say something like "could we record that again?" That's amazing. As for me, if it were ok as it was I'd just be like "alright, it's good like this right?" (laughs)
Shibasaki: By nature, I'm probably a little self-conscious about my voice.  I felt some relief little by little. But when it's just my voice, I worry about if it came out clearly.  So we would test out listening to it afterwards.
Aoyama: You've got a voice unlike other voice actresses so I thought it was very nice. Very cool.
'Q: In this movie, Fuji Nanami's role left a very hard and dynamic impression different from the other movie versions of Conan so far.
Aoyama: For this movie, from the time that the setting was decided to be the Aegis ship, I requested to the scriptwriter "Sakurai Takeharu" that they try to make it very realistic. So it became very much directed towards adults. Because even for me too, when it's more directed toward kids I don't find it as interesting. Having said that, midway through I started to worry about whether or not kids could also enjoy this movie, whether they could be brought along to see it. But in the movie Conan explains in a way that's easy to understand what you should look for or what you should think about, and so I think that it's contents can be enjoyable for children as well.
Shibasaki: I was also thinking "man, this is difficult" as I was working on it.
■What a Shock!! The announcement of the secret rule of Conan!!
Q: As for Mr. Aoyama, do you have any rules for when you're drawing Conan?
Aoyama: There's one rule I have which is "Conan must never cry."
Shibasaki: Does he cry this time?
Aoyama: Well, I'm not saying he cries.... But, there are people who are planning on seeing the movie so I have to keep it a secret (laughs).
Q: You played an active role in the Detective gadget that will appear this time too. Can you tell us anything about that?
Aoyama: I kept the names absolutely simple. Because if I didn't then it would be embarrassing. Something like "Ball Shooter" isn't embarrassing is it. "Kick-Power Reinforcing Shoes" isn't an embarrassing name, and also it's easy to understand. But those rarely get used. The most recent thing to get used was the belt wasn't it? But it won't get used from here on out. If something strange suddenly shows up then it would be weird, so it always has to be something that Conan can wear. But we've already used so many things, there's not much left besides and backpack.
Shibasaki: What about his hair?
Aoyama: Well, he's not Kitaro (laughs).[T/L: Kitaro is a famous character from a comic called "Ge Ge Ge no Kitaro" created by Mizuki Shigeru. Kitaro is a ghost who has many gadgets at his disposal, some of which being his hair which can be used for various things.]
Q: Lastly, could you tell us a scene that you really liked?
Shibasaki: Well, I've only been able to seen it once, but when I did see it obviously I could here my voice in it so naturally that got my focus. If I were to watch it again I think there's a scene with Conan that would really move me. The sound in the movie is very strong and I thought it was amazing. For example, the scene where the Aegis ship is going to attack was really amazing.
Aoyama: I also drew some key-frames, and it's embarrassing to see them appear in the movie, which I think is like what you were saying right? The animators' style and mine are different so it's easily noticed. It wasn't so much that way this time, but... how was it? You couldn't you notice could you?
Shibasaki: No, quite the opposite... it was really cool!
Aoyama gave a signed and colored illustration of the rare combination of Conan, Haibara Ai, and (the seldom drawn) Phantom Thief Kid, as a present to the extremely happy Shibasaki. She seems to not have just been giving him a complement, but to truly love Conan. She said ecstatically "I'm going to definitely frame it and hang it in my room!" What's more, from the start and still now she excitedly said "I want to try doing a voice in the animation. Any small role is okay, and you don't have to pay me."