Name: Shonen Sunday Special Booklet
Date: July 17, 2013

Content:
Raw:
Cover
Index and announcement, Conan
Ran and Kogoro, Haibara and the Detective Boys
Kaitou Kid and Hattori Heiji, Okiya and Sera
Gin and Vodka, Chianti and Korn
Vermouth and Amuro, Extra! Kurogane Yaiba
Special Interview
Special Kaitou Kid Commentary Part 1 & 2
Special Kaitou Kid Commentary Part 3
A lesson in drawing Conan
A lesson in drawing Conan

Translation:
Source: https://conan-4869.net/post-14509
Character Sections
Conan
Hairstyle: Took 1 minute, got Yaiba's hair and made it smoother. Added Mahoutsukai Sally's little brother Kabu's apostrophe. The way he drew the back of the hair came from Adachi Maru's main character of Nijiiro Tougarashi (Rainbow Chilli Peppers) Shichimi...
Fashion: Essentially, 753 wear, i.e. when you're little at ages 7. 5 and 3, when these formal photos get taken, Gosho's 753 photos have him in bow tie and shorts. :P He tries to keep gadgets to what Conan can wear...but he's run out of ideas of late...
Glasses: Gosho likes Superman. And when Clark Kent was hiding his identity, he wore glasses. So when he wrote Ai and Conan's conversation in vol 24, it was like a long held in secret was getting out.
Speaking Habits: Rough but kinda cool, inspired maybe by Joe from Tomorrow's Joe Barooo, and other habits might have aspects of Touch in them as well.
Ran
Ran's concept: "Saying Ran's perfect is probably saying too much, but she's someone you'd want to have on your side. She's can fight and is a diligent student and can cook really well. And she's always waiting for Shinichi. Her only weakness is her fear of ghosts. I wanted to draw a girl that is strong in many ways, as I had never done so before."
Kogoro
Gosho thought that a mystery type story would end pretty quickly so he originally designed Mouri like a thinner version of Nakamori. But then he was told that they were too similar, so he changed his hairstyle and his moustache... When both Nakamori and Mouri appeared in the same case there was a lot of thought over which one ought to be taller. On that front, Mouri is supposed to be taller. He made him a detective instead of a police officer because he thought that was easier to manage, He knows about policemen and he knows about cases. It makes things a lot easier... Oh sorry, I meant, the reason for the backstory about why he switched from an officer to a detective...it makes being a private detective easier for Mouri. Also, his face is familiar to a lot of the officers.
Haibara
Haibara's concept: Gosho had planned to introduce ex-BO member Haibara from the start, even though her introduction was later than planned. As for her character, he wanted a tsundere character who's the opposite of Ran. Even though Haibara doesn't have much deer. But that's how he likes her. (laughs)
Detective Boys
Zenthisoror: The original concept of the three Detective Boys was to enable Haibara to hide amongst them! Basically, they provided the hiding place for Haibara. Gosho wanted a fat one, a thin and snarky one, and a cute little girl. They're obviously inspired from Doraemon but the personalities of all three are very different from their Doraemon counterparts. Especially because Conan's very different from Nobita-kun (hahaha, you could say that again) You could say that the three DB kids together are all Nobita-kun, all shouting, "Help us, Conan!" Genta's family run a bar/pub. Mitsuhiko's parents are both teachers. Mitsuhiko's sister is also a teacher. Ayumi's family he's not so sure...they live in a flat modelled on the one Gosho used to live in...so probably not the average office worker...
Kaitou Kid
Phantom thief and master of disguise. Nobody knows his real identity - but he is a high school student just like Shinichi Kudo and goes by the name of Kaito Kuroba!
Comment! I needed a nemesis for my detective!
Design: He looks pretty cool of course, because he originally is the protagonist of another Manga series. But for every reader who doesn't know Magic Kaito, his guest appearances in Detective Conan could feel a little bit disconcerting. I for one have the biggest fun while drawing him!
Concept: I wanted to have a powerful antagonist for Conan, someone like the Fiend with Twenty Faces from the works of Edogawa Rampo. And suddenly it occured to me that I drew such a character some years ago! From that time on it was decided that he would have guest appearances. Naturally I talked at length about it with my editor back then... who voiced his misgivings. So I tried to make Kaitou Kid's first appearances not too over the top.
Heiji
His father is the superintendent of Osaka. He is a high school detective. And he is so good, that even Conan/Shinichi respects him!
Comment! The Anime just needed a rival...
The highschool detective of the west: He hails from Osaka and so he has a dialect - which is because a complete opposite just makes a rival all the more interesting! But the whole thing also has the background, that the leading editor from back then came from Osaka, so that I completely trusted him during the final approvals of Heiji's lines. Additionally, his dark complexion is also a strong contrast to Conan's/Shinichi's appearance.
Concept: At first I created a storyline which was designated for the start of the Anime series and should have introduced Ai Haibara, but this wasn't to be. And suddenly it was said that the Anime series needed a rival, so I created Heiji Hattori. It was evident to me that a rival would also have to be a highschool detective and one with a very contrary personality to Shinichi.
Okiya
Hairstyle is Char Aznable from Gundam crossed with Chiaki from Nodame Cantabile, which Gosho was really into at that time. It's the part of Chiaki's hairstyle where it's sticking up all over the place from how he sleeps that he added to Okiya. His identity: Is a SECRET. People might have already figured it out, but he'll leave it to our imaginations (some of the page has been cut off)
Sera
In the detective koushien case, the female detective despite being the culprit ended up being so popular that there was a demand for this character but it was impossible since she was the culprit so Aoyama created... Sera.
Gin
Gin's about the hat and the hair. There wasn't much deep thought behind his design. Just that he had some kind of high leadership position in the Organisation, but as Conan continued and looked as though it would get longer his character development got more complicated. 'The Aesthetics of a Killer' He drives a Porsche 356 A and carries a Beretta M 1934, so he's very particular about his tastes. But being particular makes a character cooler? (ahaha)
Vodka
And Vodka is Gin's Watson...and what his eyes are like, Gosho will leave to the readers' imagination...
Chianti
Concept: A character who wouldn't go around sucking up to Gin. He [Gosho] thought the swallowtail butterfly tattoo was cool. He [Gosho] thought a lot about her development and some one liners, like 'When my butterfly flaps its wings, people die'. But snipers keep both eyes open to shoot, so that one liner went down the drain. Her speech habits are supposed to make her seem a bit sexual.
Korn
Concept: Silent, unsophisticated, and a bit of a wierdo...he's got skills though. Things are more fun with characters like these, aren't they? He's designed so that he looks like nobody else in the Organisation. He's got skills as a sniper though! The only person better than him at sniping, including Chianti, is Akai. If he's alive (hahaha) He hates Vermouth. For letting Calvados, a fellow sniper, die. It's not like there was anything particularly special about the relationship between Calvados and Korn. It's probably just that as one sniper looking out for another sniper, he can't forgive her...  Fundamentally all members of the organisation with code names are supposed to be at the same level, so Korn's supposed to be at the same rank as Gin. It just happened this time that when they chanced to form a team Gin came out as the most leader-like of all them.
Vermouth
She's the bad side of Fujiko Mine, the good side being Yukiko. Yukiko has Fujiko's hair-style. Both Vermouth and Yukiko have this middle hair-line too. Both hard to draw. It was difficult during the Train Arc because they both had a lot of panels given to them. But it was fun and the result was a success. Leaving aside their standing inside the BO, Vermouth used to like Gin in the past, I'd say. She also had a profound relationship with Gin... However, since Gin isn't the type to fall in love with another person, all this came from Vermouth's side.
Amuro
A character who's neither Akai, neither Okiya. First character with dark skin and blond hair. A long time ago there was the character Jewell (?) in Yaiba though. The cutting and adjusting of the frames was difficult because of the white hair but digital drawing makes it easier.
Extra! Kurogane Yaiba
Towards countless adventures together with his Thunder sword: Yaiba, the hero of the eponymous precursor series to Detective Conan!
Comment! A shared appearance with Conan? At least his mother did herself the honor of showing up!
Here you can see Yaiba, who Gosho drew for the first time after ten years on the occasion of this special booklet!I haven't drawn him for a long time.Somehow, I think he looks way to smart on this picture!
Concept: I used Teppei from Ore wa Teppei by Tetsuya Chiba as a model. I loved this Manga back when I was a kid! Teppei was also the reason why I started with Kendo. So Yaiba was kinda conceptualized as a Teppei with Thunder sword. On the other hand, it's fair to say that Teppei is way smarther than Yaiba!
Similarities with Conan: He never gives up and he doesn't cry. But that's just how heroes have to be! Especially in front of the Detective Boys Conan acts like Teppei, just like Yaiba. But when Conan turns into Shinichi he is more like Joe Yabuki from Ashita no Joe.
How about a shared appearance with Conan?: A shared appearance together with Conan? At least Yaiba's mother did herself the honor of showing up. Heiji's mother Shizuka got the second place in a Kendo tournament back at middle school -  and the first place was taken by Michiko Tsubaki (maiden name), mother of Yaiba! Her face is the same as that of Moroha, the little sister of Yaiba. Whether Yaiba is also to be found somewhere? Probably not.
Special Interview
1: Did Heiji make Conan drink Paikaru knowing what it would do to him!?A: It was all a happy coincidence and the rest is internet conspiracy theory...
2: A message came to Sera from her brother about whether she had met the wizard yet...was that from 'Shuu-nii'?A: But Sera-chan said that 'Shuu-nii was dead' didn't she? In which case (smile)...
3: Sera seems to have met Conan before, but was that when Conan was Conan or Conan was Shinichi?A: I can't give too many details, but Ran has met her too...
4: (Translated by Conan#1) Why did Conan tell Miyano Akemi his true identity? Any reason?A: Because Conan thinks that person is going to die anyway.Q: What if Akemi is taken to the hospital and brought back to life in a miracle!!!A: (smile)
5: The APTX4869 - it can shrink people as a side effect, so what's it actually supposed to do? Tell us!A: Er...sorry, I can't say...
6: Apart from Conan and Haibara, are there any others who took the poison and ended up shrinking?A: Who knows...maybe another one will turn up some time... (laughter)
7: In order to complete the silver bullet, why did Haibara have to separate from her parents?A: I'm afraid I can't answer that either...But that will be answered eventually! So bear that in mind...
8: Will Itakura's software become important at some point in the future?A: Well, I took the trouble of introducing it to the plot, so it must become important at some point...
9: Also, any hint as to what sort of thing it was...A: Ahahahaha! Just remember it! Please keep it in mind!!
10: Gin and Vodka wear suits even in the summer...is there some secret as to how they manage to get by!? Normal people would find it too hot to cope...A: Because wouldn't Gin in just his shirt be a bit funny? Yeah...these characters are among the ones that are a bit difficult to write in the summer...Gin, Vodka, Chianti and Korn all wear a lot of layers... Drawing them becomes a bit of a drag... Fundamentally, all men in black are a bit of a drag to draw! Vermouth, I just want to say, "Please no more!" (laughs)
11: In Akemi's mail to Akai Shuuichi that went 'If we could both get out of the Organisation...' what was in the PS?A: That's an important point! I'll be bringing that up in the story later!
12: One last thing...could you tell us the identity of the Boss of the BO?A: Wahahahaha! Alright, I'll let you in on the secret...It's actually...
Interviewer: Whaaaaat!!! Answering these rather harsh questions in such a playful manner within his busy schedule, that was Aoyama Gosho!(Note: Gosho did not actually say the name to the interviewer. This is a joke)
Thank you very much!!
A Lesson in Drawing Conan
Gosho Aoyama tells it all!
Concept pages of the last case about Kaitou Kid, inlcuding comments by the master himself!
How is Detective Conan made? On the next pages we will show you some concept art for the episode featuring Kaitou Kid from volume 82, together with some eye-opening commentary by Gosho Aoyama!
I drew Makoto over the whole height of the page, because he had to look really cool. I don't really know who the people behind Inspector Nakamori are supposed to be, so I just wrote "Policemen". And because it was hard to tell the gem and the air gun projectiles apart, I provided them with some notes, too.
Here you can see the finished manuscript!
On the concept art there was only a simple circle, but on the finished page the gem shines in all its splendor! Makoto's gas mask is also pretty detailed on the finalized page.
On the rough page it is hard to see that Ran and Conan are brushing their teeth, so there is an appropriate note. But you can recognize Ran pretty easily by her pointy hairdo, even on very rough concepts. And Conan is always easily recognizable by his text! And of course by his glasses and the crown.
Even on the concept pages, the facial expressions are highly convincing!
Here you can see the finished manuscript!
The tooth brushing scene was pretty loose in the concept stage, but got a lot of details in the finalized manuscript. And the perspective from which the detective agency is seen has also changed - so its shown to its best advantage.
The concept pages are always accompanied by a character overview, which serves as a reference!
Every character is seen in a specific perspective. When Gosho Aoyama has decided about the looks of the respective characters he proceeds with the creation of the manuscripts!
Here I used almost the same dialogue from a few pages before with other characters. Because this is a key scene, I kept the panel composition from the concept page in the finished manuscript.
Conan: Looks like Kid stole the show from me in this story!
The finished manuscript!
Just like Gosho mentioned in his commentary, the panel composition often doesn't change from concept to manuscript stage.
A character overview of the Suzuki family. 
An overview of every appearing character serves as a guideline during the production of a manuscript. This time, Sonoko's family gains center stage.
Thanks a lot for the exciting insights, Gosho Aoyama!