Name: Monthly Conan Newspaper 2014
Date: March, 2014 (Part 1) and April, 2014 (Part 2)
Published in: Monthly Conan Newspaper, March and April edition

Content:
Raw:
Part 1

Translation:
Source: [Part 1] [Part 2]
Translation taken from: meitanteikonan blogspot
An extra long interview that lasted over 2 hours with Detective Conan creator Aoyama Gosho (50). This time, he talks about the black orginization, how he creates tricks for cases, Kaito Kid...and he gives a full report on his future plans.
So... Please Enjoy! ^o^
I(Interviewer): So, It seems you have decided on the overall ending already right? Have you even planned the final scene?A(Aoyama): On January 4 this year (2014) I went on a kind of talk show event held in my hometown in Tottori Prefecture, called "Let's Have a Chat with Aoyama Gosho Day!! 2014". And, there we had talked about the black organization, and the identity of their Boss. I had revealed that the Boss was someone that has already made an appearance and we already know their full name. So, it's a character we already know, and we also know their full name, but there has been some mistake that has gotten out there.It's been going around the internet...and it's wrong!!
I: That would be that it's Professor Agasa...A: Right right. And it's even being said that it's the woman that Agasa liked, Fusae-chan ( Fusae Campbell Kinoshita), but that's wrong too. hahaha. Even personally, I think their story ended up beautifully. And it's been said many times that that story is just too nice, and that it just has to be her, but I don't think I want to have that be a major plot point.
I: So, at the present moment, are there no other hints about the identity of "that person".A: No, not for now. Just please look forward to it. (laughs)
I: So then, the black organization is full of mysteries. But, what sort of organization are they, and what is their goal? World Conquest?A: Well, the world....or rather, they want control of lot's of money. They're moving stealthily in the shadows...sort of like (Al) Capone did right? Or, sort of like the image of the bad guys in 007 or something...sitting there stroking a cat. It's probably best not to say too much.
I: Is there any standard procedure when you're drawing the black organization?A: As for the members, like Gin or Vodka, their names must be some type of alcohol. But, I'm running low on different types. They're all distilled alcohols. And the girls, like Sherry and Vermouth, are named after sweet alcohols. (As for why) I just think it sounds cool.
I: And as for Haibara Ai, did you intend from the start to have her on the side of the black organization, or did you always plan to have her develop in the way she has?A: Yeah, even in volume 2 she had already made an appearance, though it was just a silhouette. And, because she's was a character sort of in between Conan and the organization, her name Haibara (灰原) came from Haiiro (灰色) meaning grey.
I: The movie that came out at the end of last year "Lupin the 3rd VS Detective Conan THE MOVIE" (The second cross over movie) there's a scene where Haibara gets in the bath with Mine Fujiko. So, what direction is Haibara going from here on out?A: Hahaha....Yeah, I don't know. I guess nature will have to take it's course (Laughs) The bathing scene was a little surprising. At first, my editor handed me the story board and was like "Aoyama-sensei, there's a scene here where Haibara gets in the bath with Fujiko!" And, I had read the script and didn't remember there being a scene like that in there. So, when I asked if we should have them cut it, he said that Monkey-sensei (Monkey Punch: the creator of Lupin the 3rd) requested there be a scene with Fujiko in the bath. So, I thought, if it's going to be in there I wanted it to be cool, so I added a bunch of lines, and there was a lot of content that got cut. There probably aren't any manga artists who are cutting things from animations. But I had originally wanted to be an animator.
Haibara's lines are my true intentions
I: The lines that Haibara says when she's merely muttering to herself are impressive and actually very poetic.A: The only person thinking them up is me, so I struggle with it. She herself is an easy character to write, because the things she says, I could say in real life. The things I couldn't have Conan say inspire what Haibara says. And you could say that those things are my true intentions. If there were someone that killed a person to protect a bear, Haibara would look at them with an angry face and say "You can't take animal rights that far", but if it were Conan he would say some harsh words. Because they'll say some indiscreet line with a stern face, Haibara and Kogoro are valuable.
I: Even if Kogoro is an idiot who's always joking around, he does have some cool moments doesn't he.A: I created him with the image of just a generally bad detective. He has a habit of misreading things, but he's actually very important. When he should be cool, he isn't. He's very easy to write. I can easily write some perverted thing I'm thinking. I'm probably most like Kogoro.
I: So it's safe to say that your true intentions/thoughts are hidden in Haibara and Kogoro's lines?A: Yes, those two are very easy to write.
I: How do you think up the tricks?A: It's painful. Every time it's very difficult. But, there are times when my editor will also come to me with an idea. When we go into a meeting I'll ask "have you seen anything interesting recently? Have you read any novels? Is there anything we could use?" and if there's anything interesting, we'll use it. Of course, we'll end up changing everything about it though. And then we'll start asking various people things. My younger brother is a doctor so, I'll ask him about the time of death, rigor mortis, how much postmortem lividity appears etc. It's important to wring out the foundation.
I: Do you ever try out the tricks in real life?A: For ones we can test, we test mostly all of them. A long time ago there was one where an answering machine was used as a tape recorder and then the tape was recovered. We had to actually test that. And just recently we tested if you could float a tomato on water using salt. We wanted to know how much salt would it take. And in order to get it to float, you have to put a ton of salt in the water. So, we didn't know what to do with that. But, at first, if you put just enough salt in there so that it's not quite floating, but it hasn't quite sunken either, and then you just barely sprinkle a tiny bit more in, it floats right to the top. And I thought that was really cool.
I: If you test things too much you'd probably get hurt wouldn't you.
I: There is a lot of variation in the stories, but do you ever reference cases that occurred in real life?A: Actually I don't reference cases that have actually happened. That would probably be a little inconsiderate. But, actually a few weeks after I had drawn the Bus Jacking case, something similar to that had occurred in real life. I thought "Oh man, this is bad. Should I stop drawing Conan." Although, I could probably use cases from a long time ago. Like the "3 hundred million yen case" (He is referencing the largest heist in Japanese history. It occurred in 1968 in Tokyo, and has yet to be solved.) But I couldn't reference cases that are still ongoing or that have recently occurred. It might seem like I'm making fun of it, or making light of it, and that wouldn't be good.
I: Of the tricks and the story, which do you think of first?A: Without a doubt, the tricks. And then I write a story for the tricks. Because I start with the most difficult thing and go from there. The trick will take about a half a day, or about 6 hours. If it goes quickly, maybe 3 hours. But even in 1 day, there's stuff I can't get done. There are times when I'll only get to sleep about an hour and a half. So, I'll be like "I'm gonna sleep, so hang on a little while."
I: Of these past 20 years, what trick are you most satisfied with?A: Hmm...What would that be? Maybe I should ask you that. But, the code with the sun and the moon (vol 12),  the secret to that was originally from Sherlock Holmes in "The Adventure of the Dancing Men". That's one that you can figure out on your own. That's also the first Holmes story I read. I was really excited and very moved. I was a kid, so I couldn't read English, but I still thought it was really cool. Even if it said, this person is an "L", as a kid it still didn't click immediately and I would read it while referencing the dictionary.I was in about 2nd or 3rd grade. I thought "wow, Holmes is cool. I want to do that someday."
I: Where do you get the news and lingo related to the police and investigations?A: I've asked the Tokyo Metropolitan Police. They'll tell me various things.
Kid is a sneaky character
I: Kid is also a very popular character. Could you tell us the details of his creation, and your future plans for him? Is he going to be involved with Conan and the black orginization?A: Well, he's originally from my previous work called "Magic Kaito". I created that because I really liked Arsene Lupin and Lupin the 3rd. And recently he got involved a little with the black orginization during the Bell Tree Express case (the mystery train case from vol 78) but from here on out I don't think he will very much. Kaito Kid is a very sneaky character. He can disguise himself, and he can change his voice and stuff. It's better if he's an enemy. He's too sneaky to be an ally. There are a lot of female fans of his, but I don't plan on bringing him out too much.(wry smile)
I: There are creators who decide how much a character will make and appearance completely on their own.A: Yeah, there are. Just freely doing whatever they want. When there's a movie, saying things like "No, don't have them say something like that" and then changing everything. Then they'll notice how it ends and really just change everything.
I: The Conan anime is faithful to the original.A: Yeah, that's because it's a very long story. If it wasn't faithful to it, it would become inconsistent. And at the beginning I asked them to please do just as the original does.
I: When a movie comes out, I heard you are very involved.A: I am. There's the feeling with a movie that you can do larger scale things that you couldn't do in a manga.
I: I also heard that there was an idea to set something up that would link the "Lupin the 3rd VS Conan THE MOVIE" with the 18th Conan movie "The Sniper from another Dimension".A: The setting is the "Tree" but we weren't allowed to use the name "Sky Tree" (The Tokyo Sky Tree is a tower recently built in Tokyo). They weren't sure about having people dying there. They were probably right about that. (wry smile)
I: I guess there aren't too many differences between making it a movie, or for TV, but the TV series is steadily becoming larger scale.A: Just as long as they don't interfere with the original.
I: Last year the Conan series was awarded the Fujimoto's "Special Series Award". There was an award recognizing the people who make it, and as one of the great anime which have crossed over to become movies.A: Yeah, that's amazing isn't it.
I: Even as a movie and anime, you're still pretty involved aren't you?A: I feel I might as well get involved. At first I was just going to completely leave it up to them, but then I thought, well, I better not. And I ended up changing things on all the scripts. And I was wondering if that's really something a manga artist does. It was a lot of work. After I would finish the name (the term for the "story board" like stage of a manga) I would read scripts and check them. That's a lot of work.
Q(Questioner): So, you originally wanted to be an animator, and in college you were part of a manga study group. Why did you change to wanting to become a manga artist?A(Aoyama): That's because I like making stories. And, I also like manga. And, I couldn't just suddenly go from wanting to be an animator, to wanting to be a director. But, as a manga artist, I'm really effectively always working as a director. So, really, it's just because I wanted to write stories.
Q: But it seems your father was completely opposed to it right?A: Not just my dad, but really my whole family was opposed to the idea. They told me I should probably stop, when I told them I would become a manga artist. They said "I knew an illustrator. He could draw a crab so life-like that it looked like it would jump off the page. But despite that, he died poor. Do you want to be like that?" But, from the time "Magic Kaito" came out their responses changed. I always go back to my hometown on New Year's and I'll draw pictures and sign autographs that people requested from my family, and one time, I was sitting in the living room drawing, and my old man came in, he asked me to draw (Nakamori) Aoko-chan, and I just thought "Yes, I won!"(Laughs)
Q: By the advice of your upperclassman in college, you decided to aim for your manga debut, but originally you took your manuscript to a different company? Is that right?A: It was Kodansha's weekly published Shonen Magazine. When I drew the prototype for Magic Kaito, I got an honorable mention or something, and just when I was thinking I was gonna draw for that magazine, the editor changed and the new guy didn't seem to like my style. He said "If you want to continue, you'll need to change your drawing and writing style." I didn't really like the sound of that, and and editor at the time, who would later become editor-in-chief, told me that if I didn't think changing my style sounded good, then I should probably just go to a different magazine. So I went right on to Shonen Sunday and made my debut drawing non-serialized stories.
Q: Did you ever think you would fail as a manga artist, or did you regret your decision?A: I completely thought that. I didn't think it would be this busy! It's more difficult being a manga artist than becoming a manga artist. When you're new, you want to hurry and get a serialized story before you're forgotten so you spend every day drawing names (Rough story boards for manga), but once you actually get serialized, it's way busier. (Before you're serialized) It's beyond your imagination. "Detective Conan" is particularly busy. In the days I was drawing "YAIBA" it was way more peaceful. The pictures were difficult, because it was an action manga. If I hurried I could get the names done in about a day, and could get everything finished in about 5 or 6 days. Then, with my left over time I'd go play baseball. My assistant would be like "Let's go play ball!" And, I still had free time left over. If I tried to do that while making "Conan" it'd be too difficult...
Q: Usually, your work week is 3 days for the name, and 4 days for the manuscript?A: Yes. And my daily routine is usually, I go to sleep at about 10 am, and wake up at around 1 pm, that's when my assistants usually arrive. I'll usually write a sign that says something like "Wake me up when you get here    -Aoyama-" So, my sleep time is about 3 hours. It's usually like that. I'll work and then at around midnight I'll usually get tiered and tell them I'm gonna go sleep for about 30 minutes. They'll wake me up, and we'll work through to morning. And that goes on and on for 20 years. (Laughs)
Q: What about your meals?A: When I wake up, I'll always eat udon or soba or something. Then at about 7 pm I'll usually order something. I'm always ordering delivery. But in the middle of the night I'll go to a convenience store or something. A long time ago, sometimes my assistants would make something. Now that we're working off computers we're even more busy and my assistants don't have time to make any food either. Our dinner is from a convenience store! My favorite thing from there is oden. It's delicious and healthy.
Q: After 20 years of working, have your methods changed?A: After about 3 hours of work, I'll take about a 30 to an hour and a half break. Maybe sleep for about 30 minutes. After 30 minutes sleep, I'm rested enough.
Q: Do you have any superstitions?A: When I'm about to start work I'll spin my chair before I sit down. It's sort of become a habit.
Q: Do you ever think "Based on that spin, it feels like today's gonna be a good day"?A: No, not really. (laughs) It's just a stupid habit of mine.
Q: I heard that tendinitis is common among manga artists, but do you take any precautionary measures?A: Well, it seemed like I was headed in the direction of developing it, so, probably over 10 years ago I switched to using milipens (type of pen). A long time ago I just used the regular G-pen, but that requires more pressure and  my hands would hurt, but when I draw with milipens I could draw all the lines very easily. "YAIBA" was completely drawn by pen, but I guess "Conan" was only done with pen in the beginning. With the thick and thin lines in Conan, with a regular pen you could just do it with one stroke, but with a milipen, you have to go over it several times to get the right thickness. If you're a person who's never used a pen, then you won't know that amount of pressure that needs to be applied, so if you're just starting out as a manga artist, please use a pen.
An other thing that's changed is the about 3 or 4 years ago we switched to using computers for the drawing, and we don't have to apply tone by hand anymore.
Q: The Conan movie that is coming to theaters in April "The Sniper from a Different Dimension", it has some very pivotal and mysterious characters like Akai Shuichi and Okiya Subaru making their first appearances in a movie, and they seem to play a key role.A: Well, I can't really say too much, but if you go see it, a "certain something" gets confirmed in the movie. It may be the first time a movie gets there before the manga on a main plot point. If you're a fan, you won't want to miss it. It's very cool.
Q: In the manga, Akai presence has been gradually becoming felt.A: It's a very scary and cool image. In the manga, various mysteries are going to be cleared up. Of course that is to be expected from a mystery series. (laughs) Like the waterfall that Holmes fell over with Professor Moriarty (Reichenbach), the place where Akai was shot was called Raiha Ridge. (Reichenbach in Japanese is ライヘンバッハ or Raihenbahha which if you take out the middle becomes "Raiha") And after Holmes fell into the falls, he was still alive right?
Q: So that's a clue isn't it.A: Yeah. Of course I'm a big Holmes fan. But Akai's name I took from from "Mobile Suit Gundam".
Q: In the explanation of the key characters on the site for the movie, it is written that the FBI investigator James Black is a fan of Mine Fujiko. Was that decision influenced by the "Lupin VS Conan" movie?A: That's sort of a fan service. It's sort of interesting when stuff like that is written. Black knows about various things. And those character explanations were also written by me. At first, only Akai's was long, so I made the others match his length, and added the bit about Fujiko.
Q: Nowadays, the manga artists of the original work are becoming more and more involved with the theatrical version of the movies as well, but I've never heard of the original author even writing the character profiles on the movie's site.A: Am I the most involved manga artist? I just added a few notes to what the advertising department wrote. There were several hints in the parts I wrote. I wrote several very fishy things.
Q: Why is it that you are so involved?A: I just like anime. I originally wanted to be an animator after all. I just ask if I can see any news before they release it. They let me get away with a lot.
Q: Speaking of originally wanting to be an animator, what do you think about the anime series?A: There are times when I think "thank you for taking it to such an extent," but there are also times when I think about how they went through such trouble to draw it, and it's ended up like this. When things are good I tell the editor over the phone "tell them they're doing a good job."
Q: The anime has things that the manga doesn't like sound and movement. Have there been any other effects by the anime on the Conan world?A: Yeah, in the "Moonlight Sonata Murder Case" (manga volume 7, anime episode 11) Beethoven's Sonata "Moonlight" is flowing through Moonshadow Island. You can't hear the music in the manga. When I was drawing it I could here it myself, but that can't be conveyed to the reader. But it can to the viewer with the anime. I thought that was really cool and exciting.
Q: Do you ever take inspiration from other manga artists who have had long running series or manga that have been made into successful anime, or from voice actors?A: Of course. I'm influenced strongly by the voice of the actors, definitely. I'll have an idea for the voice of a character in my head. Conan is voiced by Takayama Minami, and Mitsuhiko, at first I sort of was drawing him with more of a mischievous face, sort of like Suneo (a character from Doraemon), but Otani Ikue has a cute voice, so I started drawing him with a cuter face. And Conan always says "あれれ？(roughly, a cutesy kid way of saying "Oh? What's this?")". Originally he said that in the first volume but didn't really say it after that, but when Takayama said it in the anime, it was cute, and I started having him say it more. In the beginning, it was only my influence on the drawings, but the influence of others is good. I'm very glad, and I'd like to say thank you very much.
Q: You like sports too right? I heard you like the Giants, and soccer. So, what do you think about Japan in the World Cup this year?A: It's great isn't it. I like Honda Keisuke who went to AC Milan. I was thinking "this guy is good" before he started really making a name for himself. He's got a big mouth doesn't he. He looks cool. He's a man of his word. He's number 10 for AC Milan....that's so cool. It seems like he's gonna do something really great. I hope he gives it his all.
Q: Do you watch European Soccer?A: I used to a long time ago. I really liked (former Italian player) Roberto Baggio. I liked Serie A. And I really liked Juventus because Baggio originally played with them. Their uniform was really cool too, with the black stripes. It actually influenced the uniform of the Tokyo Spirits in my manga. So, yeah, I like Juventus. Usually I'll take a vacation once every 4 years, and I'll go see the World Cup. I went to see in person the '98 France World Cup, with Japan vs Argentina. I'm gonna go with my editor this year too.
Q: Conan's Super Kick Shoes have soccer influences as well don't they.A: Conan began serialization in '94, and it was around that time that the J-league had just started ('93). So, I'm sorry for hopping on a fad like that.
Q: There are also Kendo and martial arts motifs aren't there.A: That's because I was in the Kendo club at school.
Q: Changing topics, about a news paper, you haven't designed one have you?A: No, I haven't. But the Nikkan Sports News Paper printed a full page advertisement of the Bell Tree Express. I was so happy. I framed it and hung it in my room.
Q: Sports newspapers themselves play important roles here and there don't they. With the Sumo wrestling record chart etc., I'm glad the contents in real life are different than the story. But anyway, lastly, could you give a message to your fans, especially the young people.A: Thank you for supporting me these past 20 years. And thank you for your future support as well. If you're thinking "should I give up on becoming a manga artist? Is it too difficult?" No...I have fan letters saying "I think I want to be a manga artist.", but I just want to say, be prepared, and resolute.
Q: When you've ended Conan, are there any themes you'd like to try out?A: Journey to the West! I really like it. And, I wanted to do something like that. But, well, too many years have gone by. If this were when I was drawing YAIBA, I could easily do it, but now it would be too hard.
I'd like to draw some kind of Science Fiction too. That'd be good. If I could have a break from Conan, I'd draw that. (laughs)
Q: Lastly, could you give a few words to the readers of the Monthly Conan Newspaper, about the core of Conan.A: The next movie is a production that couldn't be done as a manga. It could only be done as a movie, and it's very cool. It couldn't be done in the manga, and it has a lot of ties to the original story. This could only be done in anime. And, because this couldn't be done with manga, there's a ton of action packed cool stuff in it. Normally, the movie wouldn't go ahead of the original work and reveal something about the story. This is the first time. If people think "What? Is that all?" I don't know what I'll do. (Laughs) We can probably only do this with a movie. You'll probably think "Ah, I see." So, please look forward to it.
(The End)