Name: Da Vinci Interviews
Date: May, 2014
Published in: da Vinci magazine, May issue

Content:
Raw:
Takeru Satoh x Gosho Aoyama cross talk
Yuki Suetsugu x Gosho Aoyama cross talk
Long interview

Translation:
Partial translation by: ALAKTORN
[T/N: So apparently a large chunk of this interview was never typed up AND this is only the cross talk with Takeru Satoh, not the "LONG INTERVIEW" from this issue of the magazine.]
Takeru Satoh x Gosho Aoyama cross talk (partial interview)
(Interviewer?): Going on for 20 years is exceptional, isn’t it? Is thinking of the trick the hardest part?
Aoyama: I think of the trick together with the chief editor during meetings. So, every time the editor changes, it’s a bother. I have to explain to him things all over again, like who the boss of the organization is, etc.
Satoh: You’re nonchalantly talking about an amazing topic. That subject is sensitive… I’m purposefully not thinking much about it, because I want to be surprised at the reveal. But… when did you decide on who was the boss?
Aoyama: Hmm… it was about here, I guess. (While picking up a volume of the manga that was there)
(all present) Ooooohh!! That’s a big hint!
(Interviewer): This isn’t good. If you read that volume you’ll figure it out. I can’t write this.
A point worthy of note in Conan is also the love-comedy, isn’t it?
Aoyama:  The love-comedy scenes are a big hassle. It takes a long time to think up cool lines for those situations.
Satoh: I love Haibara. I really do. She’s a scientist and so cool.
Aoyama: Haibara, huh? Haibara is pretty popular.
Satoh: At the beginning, we didn’t know if she was a friend or an enemy. But in the end, there is the moment where she opens her heart. She caught my heart when she ate Ran’s rice porridge and cutely said “hot…!” (volume 41, “The Secret Hidden in the Restroom”). I’m certain that Haibara likes Conan. But, understanding their complicated situation, she doesn’t take action. That’s on my mind. I also like Hayashibara Megumi-san. She has a beautiful voice.
Aoyama: When making a character, I think “if I draw/write her like this, she’ll be popular”, I can more or less anticipate it. But, just for Haibara, her popularity highly exceeded my expectations. I think Hayashibara-san’s voice is loud. Haibara Ai’s Ai comes from Irene Adler. The only one to have defeated Sherlock Holmes, “that woman”.
Satoh: Huh? Isn’t that important information!?
Aoyama: Yes, it’s the first time I’ve revealed it. In the manga, it’s said that “Ai” comes from the “I” in “V.I. Warshawsky”, but the truth is that it comes from Irene. It’s my special present to you.
Satoh: Awesome! Thank you very much!
Aoyama: [T/N: I don’t know what he’s saying exactly. Attempted translation: “If I were to spoil “that”, I thought it’d be good to make them link. That information is secret though. Rather… you’d find out that person’s real identity.”  he says ano hito, not ano kata, so I’m not sure who he’s talking about…]
(Interviewer): Eh!? You just said something important without hesitation!?
Aoyama: Right now, Sera is fun to write.[T/N: yes he jumps from one topic to another randomly, these interviews are weird]
(Interviewer): She’s suspected of being Akai’s sister, and it seems like she’s related with Conan from the past, a mysterious person. She’ll probably influence future developments in a big way. The fans also think that Haneda Shūkichi is a key person.
Aoyama: Well, he is… quite complex. He’ll appear from now on too. Soon, I’ll go collect data at the professional shogi players' championship series. Haneda’s “Hane” comes from Yoshiharu Habu [T/N: the kanji 羽 can be read both “Hane” and just “Ha”]. In the manga, things like “that person’s” real identity and even more will be revelead one after the other. [T/N:: again, “ano hito”, not “ano kata”, so I’m not sure he’s talking about the boss, that would be insane…] First, Amuro Tōru’s real name will be revealed. Then, why did he think of Haibara’s mother, Elena, will also be explained. [T/N: not sure about this phrase.] Two mothers will also be revealed as being sisters, etc.…… A lot of things are connected together. This is bad, I’m talking too much. Well, please look forward to the manga.
Please! Please, let me ask 2 more questions! What is the BO’s goal? Going by the APTX4869, I would think immortality…
Aoyama: That’s wrong. It’s true that you’d think that, isn’t it? You see, right now, something really big is happening within the organization.
Eeeh, I’m super curious! Then, the question everyone wants answered. Who is Anokata? [T/N: used “ano kata” this time, not “hito”.] Agasa Hakase was being rumored for a long time, but you have officially denied it. Conan’s father, Kudō Yūsaku is also a very big contender…
Aoyama: Yūsaku is also wrong. Now I’ve decided. From now on, I will never accept questions about “Anokata”! [T/N: not “ano hito” this time.] I mean, it would be no fun if it was figured out. Readers, let’s continue our deduction battle!