Name: Gosho Aoyama X Yomuri Giants' Hayato Sakamoto
Date: March 16, 2016
Published in: Shonen Sunday #16

Content:
Translation:
Special Post March 2016, Aoyama Gosho Interview.
Gosho Aoyama and Hayato Sakamoto Cross-Talk
Creator of Detective Conan and The Yomiuri Giants' Captain.
Why is it you became a fan of Sakamoto's, Mr. Aoyama?
Aoyama: Well, I've been a fan since he was first drafted. At that time, I was very pleased with the scout Omori, and I had wondered what sort of player he would bring in. I thought "well, he's a little thin, but he looks like he can hit." (laughs) I had a good feeling about him when watching him play. He really stands out from the crowd! I've been a fan since then. Today's the first time we've met, and I couldn't believe it was really him. (laughs) It felt like is was still looking at a TV. Sorry. (laughs)
Mr. Sakamoto, today's the first time you've met, so what's your first impression of Mr. Aoyama?
Sakamoto: My first impression? Just "this is the guy who draws Conan!" (laughs) I'm a big fan of manga and I've got an autograph I received before in the locker room. I'm gonna put the picture I got today there too.
What do you think about the role Sakamoto played in last year's season
Aoyama: While I was in the hospital they didn't have Nippon TV G+ so I only got to see highlights on the news, and that was difficult. (laughs) Also, I hadn't realized Sakamoto was batting cleanup. That surprised me when I noticed.
Sakamoto: It was my first year as captain of the Giants, so I'm getting a lot of new experiences. It was my first time batting 4th as well. My record wasn't that good, but all in all it was a good year.
You're both professionals in your respective fields, so you must encounter some real difficulties.
Aoyama: Well, first, I really worried about whether I could draw a serialized comic. I felt like I wouldn't have any more ideas after 3 months. The first year or two was really difficult. (laughs)
Sakamoto: For me, it's that we've got a game every day. That's physically tiring of course, but also you have to play in front of forty thousand people, and that's very mentally exhausting. How many hours do you usually spend drawing manga?
Aoyama: When I'm in production, I only sleep about 3 hours a night.
Sakamoto: And the rest of the time you're drawing manga?
Aoyama: Or watching the Giants. (laughs)
Sakamoto: Thank you very much. (laughs) I've gotta be able to run around so sleep's very important. I get about 7 or 8 hours. So, you don't get any time off?
Aoyama: Time off? No, no!
How about right after you've finished the manuscript
Aoyama: Ah, that's when I'll watch the Giants game they've won. On nights they've won, it gets broadcast on Nippon TV G+. So, I'll record it and watch it later to refresh myself. (laughs) 
Sakamoto: Haha! You really do like the Giants don't you!?
Aoyama: I've been a fan since the Nagashima days. (Shigeo Nagashima: coach of the Giants from 1972 - 1980, and 1993 - 2001) How do you feel about the change of coaches?
Sakamoto: It's my first experience with that. It feels fresh and exciting.
Aoyama: Can I say this? For me personally, I want Sakamoto to be batting third. Then I want you to get .300 average with 30 homers...then once you do that, please make an appearance in Conan!! Also, I want you to go a year without injuries.
Sakamoto: A .300 Avg. and 30 home runs! Since you're expecting it I'll do it. Then we'll aim toward winning the Japan Series. After I do that you put me in Conan? (laughs)
Aoyama: Definitely! (laughs) I'll be supporting you with all my might this year!!