Name: Asahi Newspaper Interview
Date: July 16, 2016

Content:
Raw:
鳥取の球児　ガンバレ
第９８回全国高校野球選手権鳥取大会がいよいよ開幕する。厳しい練習に取り組んできた県内の野球部員たちを応援してもらおうと、「名探偵コナン」などの作品で知られる北栄町出身の漫画家、青山剛昌さんにコナンのイラスト入りメッセージ色紙を寄せてもらった。（横山翼）
――野球好きと聞きましたが、きっかけは
ジャイアンツの長嶋（茂雄）選手です。
――高校野球は見ていましたか
思い出に残っているのは、原（辰徳）選手の東海大相模と、定岡（正二）選手の鹿児島実業が戦った延長戦です。夜遅くまで試合があり、なかなか決着がつかない試合を見て、手に汗握りました。
――高校球児が主人公の「４番サード」など野球を題材にした作品も描かれています。野球漫画のだいご味は
ピッチャーだと、三振。バッターだと、ホームラン。カンタンやなぁ（笑）
◇
青山さんが挙げた東海大相模と鹿児島実の延長戦は、１９７４年の第５６回全国高校野球選手権大会・準々決勝のこと。延長十五回の死闘の末、４―５で東海大相模が敗れている。原選手は野手で、定岡選手はエースだった。
◇
あおやま・ごうしょう　　１９６３年、北栄町（旧大栄町）出身。日本大学芸術学部卒。８６年、「ちょっとまってて」で小学館新人コミック大賞少年部門に入選、９４年から「週刊少年サンデー」（小学館）で「名探偵コナン」の連載を開始。単行本は８９巻まで刊行され、世界２１の国と地域で翻訳、出版されている。テレビアニメなどにもなり、映画は今年公開の「名探偵コナン　純黒の悪夢」で２０作目。ほかに「まじっく快斗」「ＹＡＩＢＡ」などの作品がある。

Translation:
Source: https://bbs.aptx.cn/thread-296434-1-1.html
Good luck Tottori team!
The 98th National High School Baseball Tournament is finally going to start. In order to give some support to the Tottori baseball club members who have been training hard for this competition, Goushou Aoyama, a manga artist from Hokuei-cho who works on the Detective Conan series, gave us an interview as well as a drawing.
Q: I heard that you like baseball. What made you like it?
A: (Shigeo) Nagashima, of the Giants.
Q: Did you watch high-school baseball when you were in high-school?
A: I have vivid memories of the extended game with (Tatsunori) Hara of Toukai University and (Shouji) Sadaoka from Kagoshima Jitsugyou. The game lasted until late at night, I was seeing that the game was going to be hard to settle, my hands were sweating.
Q: A high-school base-ball player was also the protagonist of your short story Third Base Fourth. What was the best part of writing it?
A: When it's the pitcher, it's a strike out, when it's the batter, it's a home run. It's easy to write! (laughs)
◇
The game Aoyama-san mention was the Toukai University vs. Kagoshima game of the quarterfinals of the 56th National High School Baseball Tournament, 1974. After 15 extension times, Toukai University lost 4 to 5. Hara was a fielder and Sadaoka was an ace.
◇
Goushou Aoyama. Born in 1963 in Hokuei-cho (former Daiei-cho). He graduated from the Nippon University College of Art. In 1986, he won the Shogakukan Newcomer Award given by Shogakukan, and started serializing "Detective Conan" in the Weekly Shounen Sunday" beginning from 1994. The series consists of 89 volumes to date, translated and published in 21 countries around the world. It also became TV show, and the 20th movie, Pure Black Nightmare", will be released this year. Besides Conan, Aoyama has drawn Magic Kaito and Yaiba.