Name: Magic Kaito Vol 5 Playback Episode
Date: July 18, 2017
Published in:

Content:
Translation:
Magic Kaito Volume 5 – Playback Episode from Gosho Aoyama
Hi, it's Aoyama !Since a new volume of Magic Kaito came out, I have to delve into my memories from the past.
PHANTOM LADY
I wrote this story about Kaito's parents four years ago. I had stopped writing Magic Kaito for Conan and I thought : Wow, so much time has passed ? (laughs) If I recall correctly, his mother mutters Kaito, it's time for you to know, and the story's finally here ! It's this story that finally revealed that Kaito's mother's name is Chikage. It was my first time digitalizing a manuscript, I was glad I managed to portray the security sensor similar to phantom thieves stories so cooly, but I had to drew one night scenery after another, and that took time and so I almost didn't make it in a deadline. By the way, this story leads to Conan's Ryouma case, in volume 70. Read it if you're interested !
MIDNIGHT CROW
When it was decided to animate the series, I had a meeting with the animation staff. We asked ourselves How are we going to finish the story ?. So I suggested : Why not do one about a black Kaitou Kid that would be published in the Sunday ?. And that's how I wrote Midnight Crow. I will never forget the staff's face when I told them Actually, Touichi is alive (laughs) 
Ikeda-san, Touichi's voice actor, had difficulty saying the line When you come in contact with an audience, it's a scene of duel... quickly ! <3
The sucker trick line comes from Kaito Kid's anime screenwriter Kunihiko Okada, who I thank very much. In the Phantom Lady chapter, Kaito's work as Kid was given by Chikage, but in Midnight Crow, he's supposed to quit because a lot happened in Las Vegas... but it's another story (laughs)
SUN HALO
This chapter was written to commemorate the 30th anniversary of Magic Kaito, so it had to be a love comedy <3 When I drew the chapter, Kaito's bike is a Suzuki GSX 250 R. I had forgotten that it was supposed to be broken, so I had Jii-chan say that a doctor friend helped him... I leave that to your imagination (laughs)
Speaking of characters, Lucifer appears again ! As I thought, Akako uses red magic ! (Fortunately Akako doesn't exist in Conan's world (laughs)). The entrance hall in the chapter is based on Tottori's entrance hall, so please go there if you visit Tottori ! 
By the way, in Sun Halo, Aoko rides the bike with Kaito !
NONCHALANT LUPIN
It's a short story I sent to Shounen Magazine, and I got an award for it. As you can see, it was a prototype for Magic Kaito (laughs) The form is different, but even the card gun is there. I drew this because the editor I had at that time told me: Show me a story you want to write. It's my second work! Now that I look back, I'm embarassed because it looks bad. (laughs) 
Anyway, the hero's name is Lupin, and the name of the story Nonchalant Lupin, but I don't know where he's nonchalant... (laughs)