Name: Shinichi and Ran Secret Archives VA interviews
Date: January 16, 2018

Content:
Translation:
Source: https://www.facebook.com/DCTheRedThread/photos/1722146851170594/ 
Translated by: Jiamin
Info credits by: 游离之光
YG = Yamaguchi (Shinichi)
YZ = Yamazaki (Ran)
TY = Takayama (Conan)
YG: Compared to coming as Kid, when I come as Shinichi, YZ-San is much nicer/gentle to me
YZ: Although YG-San is present, knowing him is here as Kid, I’ll be thinking “ちぇ—つ” (Not exactly sure what the expression is in English, but it’s like a scornful sound”
YZ: Conan-Kun is cuter than childhood Shinichi 
TY: That’s because he’s “pretending to be cute”, that’s the difference between him and childhood Shinichi, one is a fake child the other is a real child.
Q- What do you think about Episode One
YG: It’s been a long time since I had a normal conversation with Ran, I’m really happy!
YZ: So that’s what it was like when Shinichi was still around. I also liked that whenever Shinichi shows up, the love comedy will always cover a bigger part.
TY: It told us what Shinichi went through after he turned to Conan and the time period before he ran back home. It’s like filling in blanks rather than retelling stories. 
YZ: I’m surprised that they did the Karate tournament, they even gave me a real-life tournament as a reference before I record. Ran is becoming some sort of “superwoman” in the recent movies, so it’s nice to show that she can feel pain and be frustrated. 
Q-What do you three feel about Shinran’s relationship?
YG: Shinichi fell for Ran when they’re in preschool... that’s so early!
TY: Maybe he started thinking Ran was cute when she was crying
YZ: Even though she said she started to have feelings for Shinichi after the NY case, but he’s still more of a childhood friend before he disappeared. She didn’t realize how much she loved him until he’s not around.
TY: The pain of being apart.
Q-Ever look forward to a childhood sweetheart romance?
YG: I’ve always look forward to a childhood romance, I knew a couple who were my classmates in grade school, i thought it was amazing when they got married.
TY: I would be OK with it if it can last forever. In ep 472, Kudo Shinichi’s childhood adventure, there’s a part where Shinichi wanted to be address in last name..
YZ: I think he’s embarrassed that he was the only to be called in first name in grade school.
TY: Yes, i was thinking when I saw that part, “This child’s puberty kicked in early” I had similar experience in middle school, when you get teased like that by others, the relationship can be easily ruined. It’s nice that they patched things up soon quickly!
YG: And they’ve remained close ever since, so exclusive to each other.
YZ: But Shinichi gets cocky when receiving fan letters
TY: it’s just for the attention, he felt like he’s being acknowledged, but never consider them romantically 
YG: It’s just fan letters
YZ: Ran will also go panic about some illusion, like Shinichi living with a young widow...(laugh)
YG: Watching too much soap operas? (Laugh)
TY: Ran was picked up a lot by guys. Maybe the guys in school are too afraid to because of Shinichi, but she’s definitely popular! And sometimes when Shinichi gets mad and jealous about “why is she so friendly with them”, he’s anger usually goes away if he sees her attitude towards that person, like Araide-sensei and Eisuke-kun.
YZ: Eisuke-Kun doesn’t feel like a love interest, he’s like a little brother!
Q- thoughts about recent development?
YG: We recorded CM for the field trip arc!
YZ: Yes, a couple of lines, it’s amazing that we reached file 1000
TY: can’t wait for the animation, let their feelings for each other be heard!