Name: Ai Haibara Secret Archives Interview
Date: January 18, 2019

Content:
Translation:
Transated by: Spimer
Page 97:
Megumi Hayashibara:
Q: Haibara made her debut in the anime in January, 1999. This year is the 20th anniversary of that debut.
A: Her debut was the end of the century, yes. The age fits that occasion, yes. I was familiar with the cast of the “Conan” characters so I had no resistance in joining them. I’d often acted together with Ogata Kenichi (Agasa VA), and Takayama Minami (Conan VA) also politely taught me many things.
The tale about (Takayama’s) debut did impress me a lot. You could say that she showed a general outlook in the 1st episode (of the series) and the guidelines were established upon that. I was confident that I would do well with her.
Q: How have you felt Haibara’s changes and growth over these 20 years?
A: At first, she was shutting everything within her heart, but…  The Professor’s warmth, and his lack of concern gradually heals her and allows her to regain a human flavor-like aspect to her. The Detective Boys also try to cheer her and it’s not like they force themselves to do so. The casual everyday convos make her shed tears, too.
Also, sharing her secret with Kudo, who’s in the same situation as her, she gains the feeling that she’s not the only one (in that state). In episodes 822-823 (“The suspects are a devoted couple”), she went to great extremes… Yes! (laughs)
She did support Higo, but to think she’d butt into the issue of (his) girlfriend… Her scene in which she syncs with Uncle (Kogoro). I was like “Huh? What’s gotten into her?” (laughs).
I was “Ai-chan can now make these faces”. It’s perplexing but I’m also happy at it. Even if she’s told “you’re pretty nervous”, I guess she’d reply “that’s not the case”. But it’s not like the issues with the organization have been solved, so she can’t lower the guard!
Q: Is there something you take into account when acting in such scenes?
A: I stop to think at how much her heart must have moved. Trying to examine the max values of how to express emotions… I guess? She’s a girl who doesn’t express gratitude with her face or words so I do (think) about how to express her human side.
Also, the acting doesn’t change much regardless of her size. When she’s being rough with Conan, I act in a way that doesn’t feel much different from her adult state. My voice cords are thin so I increase the tone a bit when she’s in her child form.
Q: Please tell us about “Episode ONE” aired on December, 2016.
A: I am sorry, but I didn’t see it when it aired. It was very harsh to re-confirm that her sister existed after hearing her voice… When I met with (Tamagawa) Sakiko (Akemi VA) in the studio (continues in next page)
Page 98:
A: (continues from previous page) it was very fun. We talked about recent status and so. But when her part in the dubbing ended, I felt like “Ah… I can’t hear to her voice anymore”... I guess that the episode of the answering machine in the film “Countdown to Heaven” stuck a nail on me. I loved hearing to her voice during the pre-screening (of the movie).
Now you have SNS and videos amongst other seals to feel the traces of that person, but you could say that, back in those times, the answering machine was the only one. The voice alone brings a lot of memories, it does. I think she does care about her big sister.
Those feelings revive so that’s why I avoided “Episode ONE”... But I did face it. And it was harsh, indeed. And once again I felt that I’d done something terrible. The drug that I (Haibara) had made tore apart two people who were happy. I guess that back then (Episode ONE) improving the results of her research was the only meaningful (thing) in her life.  If it’d been used for treating diseases or so, had been given a correct use, it might’ve been a great drug but…
Q: Please tell us about the relationship between her and Conan (Shinichi)
A: Lately, it feels harmonizing, as if they were an old couple married to each other! There were periods in which (the relationship) sways, too. It doesn’t go to the point of love, but I think they believe and rely on each other.
As of now, you could say it’s a tie… You (Conan) move, and I (Haibara) investigate… It feels like those roles have been established and thus their feelings aren’t too disrupted, I guess. I myself have changed, too.
I lately sit next to Minami during dubbing. She doesn’t get to interact (often) with Ran so I don’t get to met her (VA) in the dubbings… And I got shocked when I saw Wakana (Ran VA) sitting next to Minami during the movie dubbings!  I was like “ah? That’s not my seat?”. I did think “oh??” while choosing a seat from where I could have a good look at both (laughs).
And that seat is the one next to the professor’s (Agasa’s) and is my current location. At some point, Micchan (Ootani Ikue, Mitsuhiko VA) comes next to us too… There’s a battle over the seats inside of me and I was in an ill mood for a while. But as time passes, and even more when seeing “Episode ONE”... I feel like “sorry for that” (laughs).
Q: (Conan) told (her) she was (his) “pal” in the movies, too.
A: Hmmm… “Pal, huh? (For now)”. I think it’s just in relation as the “pal” to solve a case. Each movie has a different way to depict their relationships. In the “Sunflowers of inferno”, for example, she was shown swaying from time to time. So I guess she must have those feelings. She must be shutting them within her depths.
Q: How does she feel about Ran?
A: Wow. Now that’s a difficult (question). I guess that the (feeling) within her depths is a feeling of guilt. She likes her cute spots and feels a bit envious. And she sees her sister on her… She feels healed, but she probably thinks “it’s not like you’re the one who made me remember about my sis” afterwards. She’s indecise.
Q: So it’s more complicated than what she feels about Conan, yes?
A: She can lash out at Conan, so… She talks about 70% of the feelings and falsifies the remaining 30%, but… There’s many things about Ran that she can’t express in words. She briefly thinks “let’s tell her all I want to say” but then erases that line of thought (laughs).
But she does want Ran to laugh, and feels sorry when she sees her cry when she (Ran) thinks of Shinichi. Yes, it’s the most complicated feeling she has.
Q: What do you think about the progress in Ran and Shinichi’s relationship in the school trip episodes?
A: She can accept their relationship, but feels rough when it’s about Conan and Ran. Maybe she’ll make a drug to split (Conan and Shinichi) into two… Kidding (laughs)
I do clearly switch the switches when calling him either “Edogawa-kun” or “Kudou-kun” in the dubbing (sessions). The premise is that she’s an elementary student but has a bit of adult feeling to her.
Q: Professor Agasa and the DBs, who healed her heart. Tell us about them.
A: I love them! (laughs). The Professor is hiding her, but she’s strict to him about food and he lowers his eyebrows, overwhelmed. How cute she is! She’s also curious about the (relationship) with Fusae, too. She wishes for him to be happy… “Ah! It’s the person of the Fusae brand which you like, Ai-chan!” “Marry her, Professor… I’ll be able to get tons of bag samples!” (laughs)
Kidding. Well, her desire to possess is linked to life-force too! (continues next page)
Page 99:
(Continues from previous page)
A: The 3 DBs are very cute and attractive. I feel like a mother to them. I’d rather keep them out of danger than solve a case… Since Kudou-kun will solve it, anyway. 
I guess she shows her meaning of existence by protecting the kids. She does wish to be protected, too, but doing nothing but that would be stiff and harsh.
Q: She sometimes cooperates with the DB to face big crises.
A: She’s pretty cool-headed. Since she’s actually driven herself to the point of dying. And she still feels, sometimes, that she should die… And that’s why she can be cool. I think she earned her strength by leaving the organization. Not because she experienced a frightening organization, but because she’s still alive after running from there.
Q: What about Akai Shuichi / Okiya Subaru?
A: Sheesh! It’s a complicated topic, and it’s hard to answer! (laughs)
How much suspicion she puts in her words and how much of it she lashes out at him...She’s very good at considering those, yes. Voicing them aloud and avoiding lying… That’s Ai-chan for you (laughs)
Also, Ikeda Shuichi’s voice is, for me, a “peaceful trauma”. In “Tico of the 7 seas”, the protagonist I voice is kidnapped, his father, played by Ikeda, comes to rescue him and says “it’s alright!”, but… When I heard that, I broke into tears.
“Ah, it’s really alright”... I felt incredibly relieved. That imprinting made me feel that Akai wasn’t a bad guy ever since he made his debut. There’s a kind of link between the actors and the roles they play.
But I didn’t feel that from Subaru so I was on the watchout when he firstly appeared (laughs). Okiayu’s (Subaru VA) oozing voice and mysterious feeling (?).... 
Eating curry or adding litmus paper to the stew… Inspector Ayanokouji, also voiced by him, is charming, but… When he becomes Subaru you can’t trust him. I think it’s wonderful (laughs)
Q: What about the org chasing Haibara?
A: When it’s an episode involving them, I don’t feel like going to the studio. I don’t want to bump into Gin… When Gin thinks of Sherry, she was (shown) half-nude, but… Why? (laughs) I don’t want to know the reason of (his) obsession (with her), either. Because I’ll have to take it in if I got to know it.
Bun Gin also makes mistakes, and gives a “snap” feeling. Vermouth’s confidence is scary. Feels like she (Vermouth) would betray the org, too. Also… I don’t want to get involved with Amuro (laughs).
He’s 120% cool on the outside, but his “on-off switch” is quite baffling. Since he also intended to kill Sherry… Huh? That he might’ve been intending to protect her as a PSB officer?
Q: It’s possible that he was shocked at being unable to protect the daughter of Elena, whom he revered.
A; Feel it, then, feel it! (laughs)
Thinking of it from the PoV of him being in the org, his skills at infiltrating and his ability to fascinate others, he’s quite the outstanding type. I really don’t want to end up liking him so I feel like not getting close to him (laughs). I think that I’ll waver if I have some odd emotion going on.
I, as Ai-chan, I don’t want to make any more “dear persons”. Because I’ll be unable to let go of them.
Q: The org’s pursuit has cooled down, but what kind of developments do you expect to happen?
A: “Oh, no! Because Vermouth knows that (Haibara) is alive, you know? But that’s why… Aoyama-sensei is drawing a brighter Ai-chan. She’s becoming a normal girl. I’d like to say “it’s alright”. But if that happens then the work will end so (laughs)
Development in which she faces the regrets and self-condemnation within her, and involvements with the org that’ll make me skip a heartbeat… I predict that that’s what’ll happen. But until then I want to enjoy the everyday routine.
I was very shocked at seeing her family, who were recently shown in the manga!
Q: Please give us a message for the fans. 
A: The swing width of “Ai-chan likeness” has expanded but her unmelting ice is within me so… She looks cute but scary at the same time… I hope you love her with a broad sight.
Caption: Episode 231, the bus hijack. And the line in episode 280 “you’ll protect me, won’t you?” was a topic during the interview.
Profile:
Born March 30th. Tokyo Province. Main works: “Ranma ½” as female Ranma, “Slayers” as Lina Inverse, “Evangelion” as Ayanami Ray, “Cowboy Bebop” as Fey, etc.
Page 102:
Yasuichiro Yamamoto
TV Anime & Movie Director
Q: When you assumed your role as the director of the TV series, it was around the time Haibara made her debut.
A: Truth to be told, her debut episode, 129… I saw most of it for the first time when it aired. It’d been worked on before I became director, so…
Q: And then you directed the 2004 movie, “Magician of the silver wings”.
A: I think that the first time Conan called Haibara “pal” was in the script of the 2007 movie, “Azure Jolly Roger”. The script was by Kawashibara. I thought that Aoyama-sensei would correct it but it went sans a hitch. I was “ah, then it’s fine!”. And that’s when I feel like that Haibara’s directionaly was set, with her being his “pal”.
Q: You returned to being TV series director in 2012.
A: In episode 684, “Bubbles, steam and smoke (1st part)”, I had Okiya say something uncalled for, and Aoyama-sensei did scold me (laughs).
“A pretty unreliable knight, aren’t you?”
“I’ll protect you even if I stake my life on it, princess”
I added that conversation because we had some length of the episode to fill in. Since it wasn’t clear that Okiya = Akai then I thought it’d be fine but… (laughs). Haibara’s character has changed a lot lately, compared to her debut.
It’s fun to make episodes in which she bounces, thinking that she doesn’t need to be so tense and can have it easier.
Q: Please tell us about “Episode ONE”, which aired on December 2016
A: We had to swell the story of the 1st episode so the first ideas were the initial and last Sherry scenes. I had Aoyama-sensei check as well. The coffee beans and the satou being in a drug vial was an homage to a SF novel named “Inherit the stars”. I thought it’d be neat, since it’d feel like (what a) scientist (would do).
Her crossing paths with Shinichi and leading her to realize he’s shrunk was something that I thought during the making, was like “ah, this’ll do fine” and I decided on it.
Profile:
Animation director, director, animator. Has been in “Detective Conan” when it began airing in 1996, and began directing when episode 119. He’s been working in the movies since the 1st one and has been director from the 8th one to the 14th one. In 2012 he went back to being TV series director and has also been in charge of special programs and so.
Q: What episode left an impression in you?
A: I guess it’s episode 247 “The mystery caught in the net (2nd part)”, when she (Haibara) introduces herself to Ran. Looks like there are some in the streets who take it as a declaration of war, but is it the case…? (laughs)
She feels like she’s blown it away…? Or so I think…
In “The disappearance of Edogawa Conan”, the scriptwriter Uchida Kenji got to like Haibara so he got very excited (laughs)
But after the dubbing ended, Hayashibara told us “she blew it away, so why are you making this?” (laughs).
In some of the movies… In “The Detectives’ Requiem”, she acted like an uneasy child or how she got beaten up by one of the culprits in “The Lost Ship of the Skies”. The gap between cute and cool is fun to make.
Q: That gap is her charm, yes?
A: The answer isn’t that simple. She originally was a grown up girl, but when she’s with the kids she feels like she’s their big sis. I think I like it most when she’s with the DBs. But the animation is hard given how there’s so many characters (onscreen) (laughs)
Q: What kind of future developments do you expect?
A: Hard to say… Even if Conan puts distance with Haibara and beats the org, I’m not sure whether she’ll agree with him on that. If she doesn’t get involved, she might feel like the issue hasn’t been solved…
I hope it ends up in peace. But it depends on Aoyama-sensei, though (laughs)
Q: Please give us a message for the fans!
A: We’re doing our best while thinking about her, so please watch on with warmth to what’s coming next. By the way, I recently use a Tanita weight scale and she scolds me “don’t neglect exercise” (laughs)
At some point I’ve become older than Professor Agasa (laughs).
Caption: the “I’ll show you something interesting” line is one spot where Aoyama-sensei intervened. It’d seem it originally was different words but with similar contents.