Name: Da Vinci Magazine 2021 Interview
Date: April 6, 2021
Published in: Da Vinci Magazine, May 2021 issue

Content:
Translation:
Translation Information by: NightBaron, Mera, Manaphy, Kemo
1.) The interviewer says “ Rum’s identity is revealed “ right?
Gosho said this : the fact that Rum appeared in a scene I drew in the past is revealed too, using the “mo” も particle for addition.
(Wakita indeed is our RUM.)
2.) The person who’s related to the WPS gang will appear in the near future.
3.) He wants to reveal the mystery around Rumi step by step.
4.) He wants to draw a case about Amuro vs Kaito Kid.
5.) He doesn't consider WPS a spinoff but rather an independent work of his own.
6.) He thought of the Camel flashback back when he drew it and decided that the person in it would be a member that ranks higher than Gin but didn't decide the codename RUM back then.
Full Interview Translation by Holmes.
April 6th, 2020. The day before the state of emergency was declared to prevent the spread of the new coronavirus, we interviewed Mr. Aoyama. It’s been almost a year since then; with the second emergency declaration in place, we interviewed him once again, ahead of the release of the postponed movie, “Detective Conan: The Scarlet Bullet”. We asked him about how he felt about all this.
“I want things to return to ‘normal’ soon. Even if stuff like the way the world works and various other things don’t return to the way they were before, I hope that everyday life will soon return to a place where everyone can go and see the Conan movie without worry”, said Aoyama in last year’s interview. One year has passed since then. Although the situation is still highly unpredictable, it has been decided that the postponed movie, “Detective Conan: The Scarlet Bullet” will be released on April 16th.
“Honestly, Chukichi was even cooler than I expected. In the Akai family show-off scenes, he’s the only one that was written in the script from the beginning, and it’s not a scene I drew. He’s so cool, I’m a bit jealous. I think he’s the most gorgeous character in the climax scene”, says Aoyama in a voice that is full of excitement. How have you been spending the past year?
“Surprisingly, nothing much has changed (laughs). I said last year that I might not be able to draw scenes of get-togethers and parties in the future because the idea of people getting together would be a mere fantasy, but I’ve drawn secret gatherings at matchmaking shrines.
I think it’s because I have hope and expectation that even if we can’t do it now, such days will come back. I hesitated because I didn’t want to spoil the story’s reality, but everyone’s reality is probably one where people can still hang out together. So I decided not to worry about it anymore. I’m not really planning to bring in remote meetings or anything else that wasn’t popular before, since it’s still kind of a symbol of the crisis caused by coronavirus; I’d like to make sure that people don’t have to be reminded of all that while they’re reading Conan”.
The coronavirus crisis also brings many inconveniences when it comes to mystery writing, he says.
“You know, everyone is wearing a mask (laughs). You can hide your face right from the start, so any eyewitness testimony is useless. I’m quite worried about the increase in crimes that take advantage of this, even in real life. Also, as a comic artist, it’s simply inconvenient! I have a couple of assistants who work remotely, but it’s way more difficult and time-consuming to understand each other than in face-to-face communication. Even for those who commute [through my studio], sleeping in the same room is forbidden and we have to eat separately. I know it’s unavoidable, but it’s quite lonesome. That’s why personally when I’m drawing manga I want to forget about Covid, and maybe on the contrary it was right because I kept drawing that I was able to face forward”.
Rum’s real identity was finally revealed! The clash between the FBI and the Black Organization also gets more tense!
Indeed, as a matter of fact, in order to drown out the anxieties and depressions of reality, recently “Detective Conan” has been making some turbulent progress.
In a new case, which began in the 45th issue of Weekly Shonen Sunday - released in October 2020 - FBI agents are killed in succession by the Black Organization. In the last chapter, the identity of Rum, who is considered to be the No. 2 of the organization, was finally revealed.
“Last year I told myself I had to show Rum soon. It’s revealed that Rum had actually appeared in a scene I drew in the past, but that’s something I’ve been thinking about since then. I always say that most of the things I do are afterthoughts [made up after stuff already happened], but there are a lot of things that I arrange intentionally (laughs). Well, at the time I hadn’t decided on the name Rum, and I even only told my assistants, ‘this guy is a member of the Black Organization that’s even higher-ranking than Gin’.”
A character who appears casually turning out to actually be a very important person, and impressions getting overturned... It’s one of Aoyama’s fortes, but clearly no one had noticed this one. By the way, Camel plays a very active role in this case, but at first he was one of those fishy characters who you can’t tell if they’re an ally or an enemy.
“When he first appeared, I told my assistants he was actually a good guy and they were very surprised. He has a sinister look and seems shady, but he’s actually a subordinate of Akai’s who is more loyal to him than anyone else. In the FBI Agents Serial Murder Case, the highlight for me was the way he strived to get information and didn’t run away until the last moment, even when his life was in extreme danger. As an agent, he has the ability to just accept the worst, and I also like the scene in Volume 58 where he calls Akai and says ‘I-I succeeded...’. It’s the first scene where the reader realizes that maybe he’s actually a good guy, and I put in a lot of foreshadowing for the sake of that surprise”.
Most of the readers must have been fooled. What Aoyama does so well is to make us think that a character is actually on our side since he is blatantly feigning betrayal, and yet there are many cases where the character in question is truly an enemy. You can’t just read what’s up next by following precedent.
“Well, yeah, that’s how it is... (laughs) Oh, there is one more scene with Camel that I like: the one in Volume 85, when he meets again Akai, who is actually alive, and he mutters ‘Akai-shan...’. The scene is also in ‘The Scarlet Alibi’, which was released before ‘The Scarlet Bullet’, and it made me laugh. It’s very nice, isn’t it? That is a compilation of the TV anime that takes a close look at the Akai family, but it’s so well compiled that I thought to myself, ‘that’s really cool’.”
Now the youthful years that continue to support Amuro are out of reach...!
Serialized between the FBI Agents Serial Murder Case was the spin-off “Detective Conan: Wild Police Story”, published in two volumes. Kenji Hagiwara was killed in a bombing; detective Sato’s love interest, Jinpei Matsuda, was killed while avenging his [Hagiwara’s] death; detective Takagi’s mentor, Wataru Date, has died in an accident; Hiromitsu Morofushi lost his life while infiltrating the Black Organization and became the cause of Amuro’s hatred for Akai; and finally, there’s Tooru Amuro, aka Rei Furuya...! It’s a coming-of-age story of the five, who were classmates at the police academy, and Aoyama is the ‘original author’...
“As you can see from the storyboards included in the volumes, I wrote most of the story. In other words, it was just as though I serialized two works at the same time, so it was very tough. 	So maybe I could have done the whole thing up to the finishing touches, but the planning happened just after I was hospitalised and I was quite weak. Yet I still wanted to do it. It was during ‘The Darkest Nightmare’ that I came up with the idea that Matsuda and Amuro were classmates; I had already drawn the scene where Amuro visits Date’s grave in Volume 77, though. About Hiromitsu, when I was designing Scotch, I thought ‘this guy looks like Takaaki (a police inspector in the Nagano prefecture), why don’t I make him his brother’, and that’s how I decided, I guess.
I thought readers would enjoy a coming-of-age story where they were actually close classmates and shared the same dream of becoming police officers, and I wanted to show that Amuro was the only one who survived, as a result. He is a skilled guy who is nip and tuck with Akai, but it wouldn’t be interesting if he was a complete superhero from the start, right? So it’d be as in, ‘those days I spent with the four of them are the reason I am where I am today’... cool, isn’t it?”.
It’s definitely very cool. At the end [of the spin-off], when they have recklessly solved the case together, and the scene in the not-too-distant future that symbolises the four of them who part ways, plus the other person [Amuro] will... move you to tears.
“I’ve done a lot of calculations about that (laughs), so if you cry, I’d be very happy”.
There’s something a little off the beaten track that touches the readers’ hearts.
The slightest misunderstanding or miscommunication leading to hatred and sometimes to irreparable tragedies... yet following the path one believes in, while carrying the sorrow on one’s back... At the roots of “Wild Police Story” are themes that have been portrayed in “Detective Conan” for a long time.
“Thank you. Well, that’s how it is... And I want to depict all that in a way that’s a little bit different from the straightforward way. I think it’s a way of hiding embarrassment in an otherwise straightforward story. In the movie ‘Titanic’, when Rose is about to throw herself off the deck, Jack tosses his cigarette into the sea to show her how deep it is... right? And then he says, ‘You’re not going to jump, are you’. I like the way he doesn’t just stop her by force, it feels really cool, I love it.
As for the Japanese [characters that inspire me], it’s Yusaku Matsuda in ‘Oretachi No Kunsho’, Hiroshi Tachi and Kyohei Shibata in ‘Abunai Deka’, Masao Kusakari and Tatsuya Fuji in ‘Pro Hunter’... I use their stylishness as a reference when I draw manga”.
It’s true that Shuichi Akai and the others are kind of the epitomes of chic.
“He’s not attached to anything, so he can change direction as soon as he needs to. It’s cool how he transcends everything. Shukichi is also really cool when he sees through a plot, but even cooler than that is Yumi. Shukichi owes everything to her. In Volume 89, she easily tears up the marriage certificate that he was so eager to get, and then she shouts ‘You’d better make sure you never lose again! You bald-headed mouse, you!’, which is a line I like. Oda Nobunaga called Toyotomi Hideyoshi [“Hideyoshi” shares “Shukichi”’s kanji] not a monkey, but a bald rat. In Nobunaga’s letter to Nene, he also calls him that (laughs). That’s why Yumi is Nene, not Chacha”.
Shukichi and Yumi also appear in the movie. What are the highlights, in your opinion, Aoyama?
“There are many highlights of the Akai family besides Shukichi, so that’s what I’d like you all to see. Also, other than that... well, I’d like to spoil you some more, but I’m going to stop right there. After all, you also want to know but at the same time you kinda don’t want to, right?”.
That’s right... So, with the latest Volume 99 coming out on April 14, and Volume 100 just around the corner, could you give us a glimpse of what’s to come, by any chance?
“Well, let me see... the manuscript I’m working on right now is an episode [of the manga] that features Haibara at the center of it all, after a long time, so I’m sure the fans will be very happy. I’m also planning to draw soon the appearance of people / a person linked to the police academy group, and Amuro VS Kaito Kid, I guess... Oh! I’ve said too much (laughs). I think I will reveal Wakasa’s mysteries little by little, so please be patient.
But first of all, there is ‘The Scarlet Bullet’, which you’ve been waiting an extra year for! Watch it at the cinema without making any noise, without talking, without eating or drinking with anyone, I’m sure it’ll all be fine. If you want to scream, you can do so when you get home (laughs).
I was so surprised by Minami Hamabe’s voice because she was so good that I thought she was a professional voice actress or something, so, I’m sure people will be able to enjoy themselves to their hearts’ content”.