Name: Wakana Yamazaki Volume 100 Interview
Date: October 20, 2021
Published in: Weekly Shonen Sunday issue 47/2021

Content:
Translation:
Translated by Yuchi 
Summary: 
In commemoration of the release of Volume 100, the second interview is with the voice of Ran Mouri, Wakana Yamazaki.
Translation: 
Although an endless stream of cases occurs around Ran, Ran is strong and is able to defend herself against any threats. But, to Ms.Yamazaki, the most important element is outside of these scenes. On the topic of a normal high-school girl living in the city of Beika.
Q: Please tell me about your Impressions of Gosho Aoyama 
A: We're close in age, so he's like a big brother to me. He's very sharp, but conversations with him are very relaxed, so he it gives off a feel like a shogi grandmaster. One thing that left a particular impression on me was when there was Evian* on the Menu, and he asked "What kind of drink is this?" It was funny to me because he's so knowledgeable in so many topics, yet he's also kind of in a different world.
Q: How do you feel about playing the role of Ran Mouri overall? Are there any parts that you feel you have in common with Ran? 
A: Since I've been playing the role for so long, although I'm not the one writing the script, I've started feeling like I am naturally in the story. Ran isn't a member of the police, nor affiliated with the Black Organization, she's just a normal high school girl. Her father just happens to be a detective, and since she only gets dragged into cases because she's with Conan, I feel that it is important to keep a feeling that she's an ordinary person, and that it is important for her to have comforting mundane days where nothing happens. I haven't given much thought about if I am similar to Ran, but in I felt that in the preschool story (vol. 87, "Memories from Sakura Class"), where Ran cries a lot and she's protected by Sonoko, or she gives her place in line for the slide to other kids, I remembered that I was like that when I was a kid too.
Q: Have you felt any changes in Ran?
A: The story where we're in London (vol. 71, Holmes' Revelation) and the School Trip (vol. 95, The Scarlet Schooltrip) are where I felt, although slowly, Ran's relationship with Shinichi was changing.
Q: Does Yamazaki-san have any feelings like "Ah, Finally!"?
A: Hmm... it might actually be the opposite, where I'm now kinda embarrassed (laughs). Until now, we've said things we wanted to say to each other and had arguments, and that has been fun in its own right. Although they're dating, they're rarely together, and it feels like a long-distance relationship. Although it has been a long time since the manga began, I've heard that within the story not much time has passed, so I felt that Ran hasn't been kept waiting for that long.
Q: How do you feel about Shinichi/Conan hiding his identity in order to protect Ran?
A: Until now, there have been many times where Ran got close to finding out Conan's identity, but got deceived, so right now she doesn't seem to have any suspicions... I think the densest character is my (Ran's) dad (laughs). Personally, instead of Conan's identity, not knowing anything about the Black Organization, or although Ran talks to Amuro or Okiya, not knowing their identities feel more frustrating. This is because although she's already surrounded by danger, she doesn't realize it and stays unaware.
Q: Have you felt envious of the connection between Conan and Haibara?
A: Conan is Conan and Shinichi is Shinichi, so no. Ran's even said in a conversation with Sonoko that "I thought Conan liked Ai" (Vol. 83, Romance Novelist Murder Case), so I think at most, she watches with a smile as a big sister figure.
Q: From the point of Yamazaki-san, what does Ran like about Shinichi?
A: I think his clumsiness. When meeting Shinichi for the first time in preschool, Ran says she "hated" Shinichi, but his blunt nature was just a way to hide his embarrassment and he ended up helping her. Although she might not have had romantic feelings toward Shinichi when she was small, as a childhood friend she saw Shinichi, and in her heart, she thought "Although he tries to be cool, there's a dull part of him too. I know that about him." She realized her feelings in New York (Vol. 35, "Shinichi Kudo's New York Case") after Shinichi helped the serial killer, he said, "There's no logical reason necessary for someone to help another person out." I feel like that's where Ran realized she liked Shinichi in a romantic way.
Q: Is there something good about Shinichi, that only Ran can see?
A: Shinichi's earnest sense of justice, and how he tries to be strong are some points that I think Ran likes about Shinichi. I think it would be nice if there are more stories from the past. The story from kindergarten, to when Elementary school when Shinichi suddenly stopped calling Ran "Ran," and instead "Mouri," (Vol 55, Shinichi Kudo's childhood adventure"). Until then, I thought that Ran and Shinichi were childhood friends from infancy, but I realized her relationship with Sonoko was longer.
Q: Question from Yamazaki to Hayashibara (VA of Haibara), Takayama (VA of Conan): If you were to play the role of the criminal, what kind of criminal would you portray? Would you like to get caught?
A: When I am asked what role I would like to try in Conan, I always say the criminal (laughs). Portraying the emotional ups and downs until the crime is committed, and my state of mind after the trick is deduced seems interesting to me. I would like to be caught at the end and have everything come to light.
Q: Overall, what is Minami Takayama like?
A: Although there may be a lot of murder cases, since it's an anime that kids watch as well, she is very careful in picking her words in order to avoid hurting or making them scared. In order to avoid an explanation becoming too difficult, or a deduction becoming too complicated, she tries changing the way she explains it, and she is very good at seeing things like that and giving advice, and that impresses me a lot. The only person (voice actress) there every time is Minami, so she tries to take responsibility and I think she tried to create a sense of unity.
Q: What does Ran think in regard to Haibara?
A: Since Ai is an adult, she doesn't try to approach Ran like Ayumi or the rest of the detective boys. But in the case of the special express train (Vol. 78, Mystery Train), after Ai realizes that there may be the Black Organization aboard the train, Ai grabs Ran's shirt and hides behind her. I wondered "Oh, is she relying on me?" Maybe Ran just seemed like the strongest (laughs). But if that was Ai trusting Ran, I feel like that story is a lot deeper and left an impression.
Q: What episode do you like personally?
A: I like the story about Professor Agasa's first love (Vol. 40 "Ginkgo-Colored first love"). No sad cases happened, and the Detective Boys followed the professor and deduced where that person was and found them. On top of that, Ran met that person in the past... I loved that long-lasting overall warmth. That last scene where Agasa may be able to meet with that person in the future also left an impression in my heart.
Q: Do you have any messages for the fans?
A: Since we're at volume 100, the fans are probably more knowledgeable than I am, and I probably need to re-read, or else there may be things I forget (laughs). Since it doesn't seem to end anytime soon, I will continue enjoying Conan as a fan of the manga, and I am also excited to see how that will be translated into the Manga.